Okay, I'm going to call to order the
town of Andover Board of Selectmen a
regular meeting for a May uh on Monday,
May 12th at uh 700 p.m. And our first
order of business is the pledge of
allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and
to the republic for which it stands, one
nation under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all.
Okay, I want to move on to item two,
public speak. Uh, I'm going to start
with Kathy Plausy.
Good evening. Um, I have some good news.
Lois Papoff, our oldest active senior,
uh, will be turning 100 on, uh, July
25th.
And um I know it's a little early, but I
would like to uh invite the board of
selectman and the town uh administrator
to attend a little party that we would
like to give her at the senior center on
uh Wednesday, July 30th. Now, some of
you may even be on vacation. I don't
know. But I wanted to let you know about
that. And we wanted to invite all of
you. It would be very early from 12:30
to
2:00. So, I will be in contact with the
board of the town administrator asking
if we may use the town the senior
building that day. Thank you very much.
Thank you. Uh Diane Grer,
thank you very much.
Um, again, I see you have a a a large uh
agenda, so I will keep my comments
brief. Um, I'm I'm happy to see that you
have the Andover's finest on there.
You're going to be discussing that.
That's good. Um, I also would like at
some future point, you don't have to do
it tonight. Um, an update on the Bernap
um clock that where is it and what's
what's happening. Um, again, just an
update on that. And um one more thing is
I'm delighted that you have these
meetings uh Zoom so that uh people can
um zoom in from their homes. It's very
convenient and also the fact that
they're being recorded. I know a lot of
people will watch this tomorrow who
can't get there tonight. So I think Zoom
meetings are very important and um uh
thank you for doing that. Thank you. Um
Britney Comtock who's our uh assistant
town clerk.
Hello everyone. I wanted to introduce
you myself. Thank you, Jeff. My name is
Britney Brittney Comacock. I'm the
assistant town clerk as of January 2nd
and I'm the acting town clerk as of
February. I'm a I was born and raised in
the town of
Andover. And I
um went through the Andover Elementary
School, Middle School, and the high
school. And uh coming this fall, I'm for
November, I'm going to be running for
the town clerk. So, if I already haven't
already had the chance to uh see even
the town clerk's office, I look forward
to seeing those um who are going to be
coming in for their dog licenses and
their transfer station stickers. Thank
you so much. All right. Thank you, uh
Jay Tuttle.
All set at this time. All right, you got
it. Wally. Um, Wally Barton.
Nothing at this time, Jeff. Thank you.
Hi,
Wally. Uh, Liz Locatch.
Hi, everyone. Um, I I'm all set for
tonight. Thank you. All right. Louise
Goodwin,
I'm all set as well. Thank you, Kimberly
Persan.
I'm all set right now. Thank you, Jeff.
Tessra,
no comment for now. Thank you. Linda
Fish,
all set.
Haley Praau.
Okay, we'll come back to Haley Pra. Uh,
is this Ed Serizley?
Yes, thanks. All set. Okay. Jeff Murik
is here. Good. Um, Leanne Hutchinson.
Yes. Hi. Um, I wanted to talk briefly
about the senior advisory committee. I
was named to it when you named that
committee in the community subcommittee
last July that was supposed to be more
oriented toward the recreation
commission aspect of the community and
senior center. And I wasn't at last
month's board of selectman meeting, but
I listened to it the next day and I
noticed that some people were mentioned
and um thanked about a meeting that
apparently happened the same day last
month in April at your selectman's
meeting and there was a vote to ask to
be for the committee to be dissolved and
this was prior to the status of the
senior center director. So my main point
is um this I hope this committee is
still in place. I don't think it was
dissolved last month and I just didn't
want people to have the impression that
I had dropped off the committee or lost
interest or didn't have availability
because that's not the case. Apparently,
the person who helped schedule the April
meeting, the most recent meeting of the
senior advisory committee um was given
the information that I was actually
named to the community
um advisory subcommittee if that's the
proper name. So, any anyway, my main
point is uh well, two things. one, I'm
prepared to continue if the committee is
left in the way it is. And two, I didn't
um drop off for any reason.
Uh Linda Derek,
I'm good. Glad to be here. All right. Um
and uh Attorney O'Brien, I believe
you're on 2345.
345. That's him. That's him. That's him.
He can't unmute himself.
I find that funny. I'm sorry. I should
laugh that. Uh Haley, uh Proto, uh I'm
sure you're holding out till later if
that's
accurate.
Okay. And is there anyone I missed?
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Hi. who who I miss. Uh
this is Ellen Repay and uh Hi. And I'm
uh interested I was glad to see that
there's going to be some discussion
about a director for the senior or the
community senior center I should say. Uh
so that
things continue to progress as they were
progressing before. So, I'll wait and
hear what you all have to say until I
give my comments. So, thank you. Okay.
Uh, is there anyone else I missed?
Okay. All right. Um, we're going to move
on to um item three, additions and
changes to the agenda. Does any of the
members, any of the other members have
anything they'd like to add to the
agenda?
Yes, Jeff. I'd like to add the ones that
we spoke about um via email. Okay.
Um I have them. I was going to wait.
Ann, do you have anything you want to
add?
Carol Scott, thank you. Okay. So, I'm
going to make a motion that we add 5A
discussion and possible action on public
works supervisor contract. And uh I
would like to add 9 JC discussion and
possible action on community center
staff hiring committee.
Second that.
Okay. Uh anything else that we need to
add? Okay. All those in favor? I I
That's uh five to nothing for who's
doing the minutes.
500. Um, okay. So, let's move on to uh
item
four, board and commission
presentations. Eric, I don't believe we
have any.
None that I know of. Okay.
Um, item five, appointments. I don't see
any in the packet. Am I missing
anything? Nope. Okay. So, now we're
going to move on to item 5A, discussion
and possible action on public works
supervisor contract. Well, there there
is one resignation, the deputy fire
marshal. That's item
six. Uh I'll get to it in a second.
We'll get to it. Um so we're we're doing
5A discussion and possible action on
public works supervisor contract. So uh
at our last meeting,
um we approved a a one-year contract
for for Jay Tuttle. and Jay was, you
know, he wanted to sit there and come
back to us and review
um the status and he all sent us an
email that everyone received on May 2nd
um requesting that we reconsider and
talk about a the two-year contract that
was initially submitted.
Um
so I'm just going to make a motion and
we can then discuss it. I'm going to
make a motion that we approve uh a
two-year contract for uh the Jay Tuttle
to be the director of public works for a
two-year term with 3% incremental raises
uh for each year. Second that. Yeah.
Okay. So, and
and one thing that we had discussed
before was that
um you know, there wasn't really
precedent for setting a contract for a
non-union employee with um
uh a raise built in, but that's actually
not true. We actually do that for the um
the library director and those rate
those are built in and we do it with
every union contract that we have in
front of us as a community.
So being that this is Jay's um and Jay
I'll let you confirm this but this would
be your last contract with us.
Yes. Okay. and that our goal would be to
potentially train your successor within
the timeline of
other this contract if at all possible
as you know is that accurate that would
be part of what we would get done. Yes.
Okay. Yeah, I think that would be a good
idea. Okay. So,
um I do think we should consider I do
think we should approve it and uh that's
where I'm at. Was any anyone else want
to have
at related to this contract?
I tend to agree with that. After the our
last meeting, I was thinking about it
some more and I felt like we
um in other like I say in other areas we
do give non-union people a two-year
contract. So I felt we should reconsider
too.
Okay. Any further discussion?
Yeah. thread, you know, after further,
you know, like what Ann said as well,
it's um I'll support this as long as we
have a succession plan because I don't
want to be here in May of the end of his
two-year contract and not have a
candidate identified. I'd like to do
identify a candidate early on and be
able to tra if it's going to be an
internal candidate, get that candidate
up to speed. If there's no internal
candidates
um you know interested in the position
then we would look outside but we
definitely need to identify somebody
before his contract is up. So
um you know January of
202 was 2026 we would look at uh
getting uh identifying the contract the
contract's going to go to July 2026.
It's going to go to 2027 if I'm not
mistaken correct. So January 20 January
1st, 2027, we would we would have a
candidate identified or we would be
looking for a person to replace him.
Okay. Um any further
discussion? Okay. All those in favor of
um authorizing the town administrator to
um Well, I've already made the motion.
All those in favor?
I. All right. So, that was five. That
was five nothing. Britney, thank you for
your vote. That's appreciated. You're
good,
though. Thank you. Um, all right. So,
let's move on from there to resignations
now. So, item six, resignation. So,
Eric, we received a resignation from the
deputy fire marshal. Hey, Jeff. I I just
want to say thank you to everyone and
appreciate it and looking forward to
working with everybody for another two.
Right. Thank you. Thank you, Jay. Thank
you.
Um, all right.
Um, so we received a a resignation from
Stephen Pastam Sky. I don't know how to
say that. I apologize to him.
[Music]
Um, Eric, what are what are the plans?
Um, are you going to replace the deputy
or is the the fire marshall going to
replace the deputy? What is the plan?
So, I don't have a firm plan for that
yet, but what I would say is we have a
three town agreement
uh among the area fire marshals to all
provide coverage. So, there's less
immediate emphasis in having a backup
for fire marshall because we do have an
existing uh inter town agreement to back
up that position. So that will be a
discussion between me and the fire
marshal, but it's not something we need
to be worried about instantly.
Can I just say something? Mike Lester
came in. John Call is the deputy fire
marshal for Andover. Mike Lester already
came in and said he would be the deputy
fire marshal.
Okay.
Um,
so if we don't need them, uh, Eric,
please just reach out to Mike Lester or
have Mike Rester, Carol reach out to to
Eric so that Eric can go through the
process correctly and determine if we're
going to appoint anyone moving forward.
He did leave a business card, so I do
have all the contact information in the
clerk's office.
Okay. All right. Um, item seven, town
administrator report.
So, I apologize. I sent you the report
late uh and not part of the packet. Um,
I think the the two main things we're
going to get to later in agenda items,
so I won't repeat those here. Um, I did
want to talk a little bit about a couple
things. Uh the first thing is that uh
the resident trooper
uh the other day said to me that um for
the first time he's seen a noticeable
reduction in speeding on Long Hill Road.
Apparently he's given out enough tickets
at that location that everybody's wise
enough not to uh speed through that area
and buy the ballpark. Um I have asked
him to shift his enforcement priorities
now that it's getting summer and there's
more pedestrians there to uh the Lake
District as well as other areas in the
town. But but more targeted enforcement
in the Lake District because that seems
to be where we get the most complaints
um you know for people speeding. Um he
has said that he's been sitting at the
uh stop sign that you know is the
intersection of Lake and Lakeside and
has been you know handing out a fair
number of tickets there both for running
the red light running the speed running
the stop sign and running the stop sign
traveling at above the speed limit. So
we get nice twofur tickets there. you
get them for speeding and for running a
red light. Um, so I asked the resident
state trooper when he first came to
Andover to attend the state police
bicycle enforcement course. Um, he did
get a slot later um, in a couple of
weeks and I also think in the Lake
District that would be valuable for
community policing. not all the time,
but at least occasionally get out there
because you have a lot more you're going
much slower and you actually have a lot
more ability to engage with the
residents. So, uh I think those two will
both help to some extent in the Lake
District. Um I think we could also
potentially relocate our last remaining
speed feedback sign to the Lake District
if the board is interested in doing
that. I mean, my only reticence to doing
that is the last time we had one in the
lake, uh, you know, our friends and
neighbors destroyed it with the baseball
bat. Um, so we're down to one of the
three we had. Um, however, it looks like
we are getting a couple more from the
state from a grant program. So, we can
consider uh doing that. Um, I don't know
what anybody else's feelings. I know
we're going to talk a little bit later
in the agenda on speed humps and I sent
you a bunch of information uh regarding
that. So, the destratification fans, we
had some initial hiccups when we put
those in. The controller itself was
faulty. Uh we finally got them to send
us a non-falty controller that is in uh
installed and working correctly. and
Scott, who's the uh head custodian
there, has been trained in how to use
it. So, that's up and running.
Um, so we had a second meeting with OSHA
to discuss the ongoing violations. I was
there, Jay Cuttle was there, and uh
Kathy D. Roa was there representing the
library.
Um, so we got pretty much back the same
thing. we got last time. Uh supposedly
in the next week or so, we'll get the
official uh list of violations and the
official fine schedule at which point we
will start we will schedule a followup
with them to discuss and try to argue
down our fines. Um Jay and I together
have drafted a bunch of new forms. What?
One second. I'm sorry. What were the
fines? We don't know yet. He didn't even
tell you a preliminary number. No. Nope.
So, you had the meeting, he walked
through your corrective actions and he
didn't give you any information.
Correct. Pretty much. Yes.
Okay. So, they tend to draw this process
out apparently.
So, hey Eric, he he mentioned that it's
got to go to his supervisor for them to
review before they send us the final.
Right. Remember that? Yeah. I think
that's that's part of why he didn't
exactly say what our fines were.
Yep. So,
uh Jay and I have been working to draft
a lot of the the forms that they're
requiring us to have. Um, we're waiting
on Mystic Air to come in and do the
asbestous evaluation for the town
buildings. He preliminarily told me he
thought he could get in here at the end
of this week, but um, now it's looking
like next week um, for that. Um, that's
an ongoing process. As soon as I have
more final, at least initial numbers um,
I will give it to you. Um they have said
for a small town we actually did very
well. Um but that doesn't mean we're not
getting fined in the process. They got
to justify their salaries um
somehow. So the other thing I wanted to
say is both Jay and I have received and
I'm sure all of you have received
complaints about some of the new signage
that the Connecticut Department of
Transportation put up on town roads. Um,
many of you that have been on the board
for a while will probably remember back
in 2020,
uh, as the local traffic authority, you
approved,
uh, the town, um, agreeing to the state
putting up enhanced road curvature
signage on down roads. Um, frankly, we
hadn't heard about any about it in five
years. And then this spring, they said,
"Oh, by the way, we're going to start
putting that in." Unfortunately, they
really didn't consult with us on what
got put in or where. So, there are some
things I think we can adjust the
placement of that will uh eliminate some
of the concerns by the residents. Um, it
was not a particularly smooth process, I
think. Um, but it's also not a process
we internally really have any control
over.
Um, I don't know if anybody you've any
of you have questions about that. Um, I
think since they are on town roads, not
state roads, I feel like we have the
ability to modify them um as we deem
necessary as long as you as the local
traffic authority are okay with that.
Um, and I don't have specific ones I
want to adjust at this point. I think,
you know, we leave them in for a month
or two and then take a look at it and
see which ones we're still getting
complaints of. Um, you know, then, so
that's kind of my plan going forward for
that, unless you have any other
guidance. Can I just ask, is Bunker Hill
Road one of the roads? Because someone
had complained it's really narrow and
where the signs are, if two trucks are
passing, it's almost like they have to
nearly hit mirrors to get by.
I don't know. I didn't drive up Bunker
Hill, so I I don't know. I'm just saying
what I received in an email. I don't
know if anyone else did. Yeah, I I did
drive down Bunker Hill. I mean, I didn't
see that as a safety concern. I did see
that the placement of them was directly
in the line of sight of a couple
people's, you know, backyards. Um, and I
could see why visually it would they
would be concerned about it. Um, so I
and there's a couple on Bear Swamp that
I think are probably worthy of
adjustment. Um, Jay, I don't know if you
have any feedback on other ones you want
to consider uh moving.
I No, not at this time. I'm still
looking at a few of them. I had one on
uh a resident had a concern on Gilead
and uh that Yeah. So, still under
review. So, yeah. And I we we got to put
our list together. Exactly. So, put your
list together and bring it back to us so
that we understand what you're looking
for. And if you can at least tell us
before the next meeting so maybe we can
drive around and see those signs.
Okay. All right. Sure.
Okay.
um talked about that talked about
that. So the other thing is
uh that we did get back and I sent it to
the board the draft financial statement
for the town. So you should have all had
a copy of that.
Um, I think we're probably a week or two
away from having a final
[Music]
uh, you know, a final completed audit.
There certainly aren't any more hurdles
to the audit um, at this point. Um, so I
just wanted to give you a super quick
snapshot of what we had in that year,
which is the financial year that ended
in July, correction, June 30th of
2024. The total difference between
expenditures and revenues was $46,000.
Um and on the revenue side that number
was
$226,000 which is 1.8% of total revenue.
So the major causes of that were the
change to the stiff account first
occurred in that year. Um that was a net
difference of
$126,000 by switching over to the stiff
account when we hadn't budgeted for
that. Uh the second thing is that the
the state overall had a very good budget
year. Um and because of that we got a
municipal revenue sharing grant of
$79,000
$79,600 that we were not anticipating or
budgeting for. Um, and the
third third thing was that overall
taxation and tax
collection was up about $31,000.
Now, the
uh
the general taxation or the general tax
collection between the grand list and
the supplemental grand list was actually
$85,000 below what we predicted. Um,
however, the increase in back tax
collection because Kate has been a lot
more aggressive with collecting back
taxes was enough that we collected a
total of $31,000 more than we inspect
expected. So, that's on the revenue
side. So, on the expense side, uh, we
spent
$180,000 less than we anticipated.
Um, so the biggest
uh chunks of that were, you know, the
contingency fund, which we really didn't
have to spend anything of. Um,
approximately
$33,000 was employee benefits. Um
there's a couple reasons for that, but
one of the reasons is we have been very
aggressive at getting employees to take
the fee in lie of and every employee
that takes fee in lie of is a pretty
significant savings of money to the
town. Um $17,000 of that was the
decision not to hire a replacement admin
assistant for myself um and to sign a
contract with Kate to do that as a uh
additional responsibility as opposed to
a standalone um you know position.
$21,000 was the savings from the
resident state trooper, which is the
difference between the estimate the
state gave us and their final bill. Um
$10,000 was elections. And a big part of
that was the fact that we did get a
pretty significant state grant that
covered most of the costs of early
voting. Um $10,000 was undersspending in
the town clerk's budget and $10,000 was
snow removal. Um so that that basically
was what we where we were in last year's
budget. So of that uh money um
$190,000 went into the to offset
taxation in the current year. So, and
that's basically all I had for my report
unless you have questions for
me. So, none of
the under
expenditures
were they were all items that were
estimated pretty much. So, if you had
50,000 for contingencies, that was to
protect us in case we needed it.
Correct. And then you go through the
benefits. That's
That's based. Okay. I
mean, was there anything that I missed
in my listening that was we just you
totally or we totally mis hit the
budget?
Uh because the state trooper we just get
a number from the state troopers office
and that's the number and we hope they
come near it.
Right. But the the problem with the
state troopers budget and I looked back
over say a six the sixyear period I I've
had and the most we've paid in any one
year has been about
$170,000 and the least we've paid is I
think
$117,000. So, and because we don't
really have any control over who our
resident trooper is, and we don't have
really control about what indirect rate
they charged us, um, that's a highly
variable number. We usually set it at
what the state police gives us for an
estimate. Um, but they're over or under,
you know,
$20,000 pretty
regularly or more.
Okay. Anyone else have any questions
related to the budget for Eric or to the
financial statements and where we ended
up? Okay. Eric, do you have anything
else that you want to bring to us? Uh,
nope. Not not that's not already on the
agenda other than I do have one thing
that came in today. I did get a draft
technology services agreement from South
Windsor for next year's IT bill. If you
remember, they we tend to run three-year
contracts and it's been up. Um their
board has just agreed to the fee
schedules for all the towns. So, I will
share that with the board, but since
none of you have had the opportunity to
review it, I'd like you all to get a
look at it before we uh have that
conversation. Um, I would like to get it
signed sooner rather than later. Um, but
it's not something we have to do
tonight. Can we uh put it off to our
next meeting in June? I know the
contract starts in July. Or will that be
problematic? I think that would be
problematic. they're looking for us to
sign it sooner rather than later.
Um, so we had to go back to South
Windsor because what South Windsor
originally proposed
uh was uh definitely above what the
board of finance was willing to fund.
So, we've gone back and kind of
renegotiated that um to come up with a
number that we have available for us
from the board of finance. Okay. Do any
of the members have a problem if we
answer Eric by email on that um that
contract
or have you read if we have time? We can
review it. Yeah. I mean, so what I'd
like to do is have each one of us read
it and then respond back if you are a
yes or a
no. That acceptable to everybody and
then we'll vote on it at our next
meeting, but it'll give Eric our
authority to sit there and sign the
contract.
Can I just ask, is it higher than it has
been in the past?
Yes. substantially or
um not substantially
um somewhat higher.
How much percentage?
How much money dollars? It's the the
total contract is for
$15,000 annually.
And what was it last year?
I mean $15,000 for IT services for is
not excessive to be really I think it
was around we were paying around 12,000
uh a year last year.
Do you have a problem with your your
services?
Uh yes, but I would ask if you want to
discuss that we do that in executive
session and I would be happy to explain
why, but I don't want to have that
conversation in the open. Understood.
Okay. Um let's just say this
contract includes a bunch of things at
our request and that's part of the
reason why there's an increase to this
Okay. Does anybody have any problem with
us going to an executive session at the
end of this meeting to just quickly
discuss that issue? No. Do we have to
vote to add that?
Um I think we can just sit there and
make a motion to go in executive session
after public speak.
Okay. And we'll vote on it then. Okay.
Okay. Let's see.
So
[Music]
15A. Okay. Anybody else have any
questions for
Eric? Okay, Eric. Thank you.
Um, item eight, old business community
center signage discussion. Um, again, I
I failed. So, I have to get that to
that. I will do that. I'll do that this
month. I I will get with Elaine Bukart
and to deal with the sign gentleman who
has done the sign down on
six. Uh, item 8B, discussion of blight
and level of involvement. We have a
document in our packet on that.
Um, any questions related
to the
status? Is the Longhill property
um, was that Longill property one of the
ones in the tax sale?
I don't believe so, but I'm not
absolutely sure.
All right. I I will look at it down the
line.
Um, okay. Anybody have any problems with
any of the issues? Scott, Jeff, I know
you guys are I see there's one new one.
I'm glad that they're keeping up with
it.
Okay. And is at the bottom of the list.
130 Bunker Hill. I think it was towards
the top of the list. There was a new
one.
Current status. Oh, Aspenol.
Okay.
Um. All right. If nobody has any further
questions on that, we'll move on to item
8 C, Veterans Field renovation update.
We have a letter in the packet from the
chair people, Mike Russo and Christine
Rendazzo.
It relates to the water to go to the
softball field across the street.
One question that we should probably
talk about tonight.
Yeah.
Um, listen, I I I have no problem if we
don't connect up
the the uh irrigation system across the
street. We haven't used that field. It
hasn't been renovated. It's probably not
going to get renovated.
Um, we don't have any uh youth groups
that want to use it. We don't have any
adult groups that can use it.
Um, anybody have a problem with the fact
that they don't do that?
Scott, you're on the board of No, I No,
I'm good with it. You're right. They
haven't used it. We thought we'd do it
during the construction process, but
nobody uses it.
Okay. Anybody have a problem with not
connecting up the irrigation the water
to the other
side? Okay. So, I'll make a motion that
we authorize the Veterans Field
Committee to forego the connection of
the irrigation system to the softball
field on the opposite side of Riverside
Drive.
Second that, Jeff. Okay. Further
discussion? All those in favor? I I I
All right. Five nothing on that
vote.
[Music]
Um Scott or Eric, I mean, we have the
plans in here. They look good. I mean,
where are we with the RFP? We just we
need to uh finalize all the RFPs, but
there's been a significant amount of
work done in the last uh week or so on
the RFPs.
Eric's got to find time to be able to go
over the RFPs and uh put his two cents
in to them.
Yeah. So, so I did uh jog Department of
Labor again today because they still
have not done one of the things that is
required by Department of Economic and
Community Development and that is send
us an official letter stating whether
this is a prevailing wage project or
not. Um so I have not gotten a response
from them. We've had some correspondence
back and forth. Um after that two basic
things have to happen. The first is we
have to send all the proposed RFPs to
DEC uh for their review um and they have
to make sure that they comply with their
uh regulations for um RFP drafts.
Secondarily, we have to submit to the
Connecticut Commission on Human Rights
our plan for ensuring that we have the
proper amount of small business and
minority and womanowned
business contracts
um you know as part of the project. So
those two things are, you know, on the
paperwork end. Um, but they're both
fairly lengthy in terms of, uh, amount
of time it takes to do them. So those
are both partially in the works at this
point. Um, but I need to carve out some
time to address them.
Scott, is
the is the
current the area where you control
the the current irrigation outside of
the playground? Is it right there on the
corner? Where is
it in the print?
Yeah, it's it's
there towards the river.
Toward the river.
It is outside the playground itself. So
if you're looking at the schematic of
the playground where the playground
takes a little L-shaped jog, right next
to that is the apparatus. Uh so that's
where the irrigation valve is. And that
box that's right there in that cutout is
the correct irrigation system. And and
there's going to be a shed over the
electrical panel.
Okay. So that's what I was that's the
other thing. So, the electrical panel
that's off on the right next to the
remove box, you're putting a a cabinet
or a shed over that. A shed. In real
life shed. Yeah. Okay. Real life.
Remember in the beginning it was
supposed to be covered. We were going to
cover it and it never happened. It'd be
much better if it was undercover. Okay.
All right. It looks good. Are you guys
happy with the playground equipment?
Yeah, there's a lot to playground
equipment.
Okay.
More than you know
or want to know.
Okay. All right. Anybody else have any
questions regarding the plans or
anything related to the
committee? Okay. It actually looks very
good. I thought the plans were nice. And
and Scott, you're happy with your pickle
ball courts?
They're not mine. They're your pickle
ball courts, Scott. It's going to be
pickle ball ball facility. No. Okay. All
right.
Um, let's move on to 8D traffic around
the lake.
Um, so Eric, you provided us with some
information related to what it would
take to put speed humps around the lake
area.
Um, correct. So, the only other thing I
wanted to say relative to that is Jay
was able to get Abby Construction to
give us a firm estimate because they've
installed enough of them to know what
their costs are. And Abby has basically
given us a uh cost of
$5,000 per speed hump installed. That
doesn't include signage or anything
else. Just the actual paving, just the
keying of the existing pavement,
installing the hump, and uh rolling it.
Um so that's good. That's less than we
were anticipating, but it's still uh
quite a bit of money. That That's 20
times 28, correct?
$140,000.
Correct.
without signage. I mean, it's
definitely listen, I walk the lake every
day. The people go fast. Um, they go too
fast. I'm sure speed humps would stop
them. I'm just not sure that it would be
convenient for all the
residents. And I'm sure that Jay is
going to have some issues with the
plows.
So, um I think it's something and that
we
should keep and consider and then look
for either grants or you really got to
get the people on in the lake area to
buy off on speed homes.
Yeah. I What other traffic coming things
are there? Eric, did you did you did
everybody see my email I sent about
Marorrow and what they're doing? Yeah. I
mean, I think we should really watch
what's going on over there and see what
how they make out with that arrangement
with the with the cameras and see what
um you know, speed bumps they actually
run into trying to get that passed. And
you know, if it's if it's a pretty easy
thing for them, maybe we should look at
it because it would probably be cheaper
and it would be a guaranteed revenue for
the town. So, be a win-win. Well, I I
don't think it's actually the revenue
source of the town. Um, what they're
saying is that it will almost break
even. In other words, your cost to put
the the speed cameras in should just
about pay for
themselves through the revenues. Um,
secondly, as far as I know, only one
town in the state of Connecticut, um, in
the last year, uh, a little over a year,
they've been allowed in the state has
actually managed to get, uh, all the way
through the approval process for the
state. So, that's not a quick Yeah, I'm
not saying it's it's a, you know, uh,
something that's going to work out. I'm
just it's something we should just take
a look at because you know Marorrow is a
similar town to ours and you know
they're they're having the same issues.
So let's just keep an eye on how they
make out with their process and you know
if it's something that that actually
works out for them and actually calms
the speed in the town with a little
involvement then it might be uh might be
something we want to do. So just
something we want to look at. Yeah.
The the situations on our lake and where
they're putting theirs are very
generous.
Can we can we honor owner is okay I
think that took care of it. Thank you.
Yeah. So I also put in the back of the
packet if anybody wants to go. Um I'm
planning on attending the uh road safety
assessment uh training course which is
June 18th in Weathersfield. You guys are
all the local traffic authority. If you
want me to pass these on because you
want to get firsthand knowledge of them,
um that's that's certainly good and the
town will make sure that uh you get
scheduled if that's of interest to you.
And I think Jay had a something he
wanted to say regarding that.
Yeah, I just like to comment on the uh
speed humps. Um, you know, I'm going to
play a little bit of devil's advocate
for you on the other side. So, it I'm
not going to I'm not going to tell you
that they don't have their place, but I
worked in a town where we had a lot of
speed humps. And if somebody if if you
guys really want to do some localized
traveling of speed humps, drive through
Mansfield, Depot Road, East Road, West
Road,
um, uh, Connavville Road. Uh, I will
tell you that speed humps are high
maintenance. They not only is the cost
uh, to put them in, but you've got a lot
of signage you got to have in there.
Uh you got pavement markings that you
have to constantly
do. They tend to get beat up by not only
the cars going over them. Um but also
the plows will take nicks out of them uh
sometimes and you know they just it's a
constant maintenance
um before you really make some hard
decisions. Um, I just encourage you to
take to drive around and to some of
these areas and start driving them.
Um, when m when Mansfield put in their
speed humps, you know, they did the
study and they did the uh uh canvas the
neighborhoods and they had a vote. Um,
and
it it wasn't easy for quite a while. Did
people get used to it after a while and
then people would go around and not go
through the neighborhoods? That was that
was uh part of the
outcome. But I will tell you it is tough
on the equipment in the winter time. So
broken springs,
um you forget a speed hump
and you know people are getting launched
into the ceiling. So it it those are
some of the things that I just want you
to understand. um or think
about. Um that's really all I got to
say. Hey Jay, did you ever have a
complaints from the neighbors about
noise? Because we we looked at this I
think Eric it was probably about five or
six years ago we looked at this. Sure.
See I was on my bike and I rode up in
the man's field and I was on some of the
roads with the speed humps where there
happened to be some neighbors outside.
So I asked them about the speed bumps
and they said they were kind of annoyed
that all during, you know, the night and
during the day all they'd hear is chunk
chunk chunk chunk chunk chunk with the
tires. Oh. Oh yeah. And and you know
some people would get mad enough, you
know, they would be blowing their horn
the whole way through and and then they
do burnouts in between.
Uh and then there would be a contest to
see who could go the fastest. Um we had
bike accidents on some of them. Um you
know and I again a maintenance thing you
know you get a little uh chip of
pavement out of it and it's a rough spot
in a bicycle tire or one instance was a
moped and the you know the handlebars
went crossways and the guy went over and
you know people complained of chip teeth
and all kinds of things. So, um, they
have on the maintenance side of things,
you have to make sure because the
liability to the town, signage has got
to be correct, markings have to be
correct,
um, and just maintenance on them and
making sure that they're always in, you
know, good shape because if like
anything, if it's un they're
unmaintained, now you're controlling
traffic. it's not just a pothole in the
road or something, you know. So, anyway,
that's my two cents. if you could
include that information in a
um like a traffic uh authority folder so
as we bring these things back up we at
least have that information so that we
uh can access it at a different time
because I don't think anyone has really
the appetite to sit there and put 50
speed humps around Lake Road, you know,
and I know we need to do some community
outreach to sit there and see if it
would be feasible. I mean, I know the
last time we did the traffic study and
we talked about a lake, we talked about
a traffic circle over on the lake road,
lakeside intersection where people just
roll through that stop sign and uh you
know, while be you know, and we talked
about doing some tests, some tests as
put out things that without building out
a traffic circle or without doing things
and we got a lot of push back anyway.
So, um yes, we did. You know, while I do
believe that,
um we should try to find some ways to
sit there and reduce traffic. I think,
uh for reduce speed, I think our best
bet would be to uh take advantage of the
state trooper and
uh you know, have the state trooper do
some work for us. He slowed the traffic
down on Long Hill. Well, that's what I
that's why I was suggesting the cameras
because they're there all the time and
you know like if it did a good it had a
really good effect on Long Hill, I can
tell you because I down at the ball
fields and I people have definitely
slowed down. They're not going 50 60
miles an hour down the hill anymore. So,
if people know those are cameras are
around and they can be anywhere then
um it would definitely curb the the
speeding. So, and unfortunately, we
can't do movable ones like No, but if if
they're in the area and you just say,
you know, there's you put the sign up
and people know they're there. Um, it
will definitely curb the speeding. See,
Jeff, even if even if they're not active
or not, just the signs alone, even if we
didn't have them active, they don't know
if they're active or not. I I told Eric
today that I need a wearable radar and
and a GoPro on my head and I need a vest
that sits there and flashes the speed at
the oncoming traffic. So, well, Jeeoff,
if we could get one of these signs we're
going to get on the grant, we can put
some straps around it and you can wear
some straps around me. Get you some
batteries and you can hook you up. I
thought about it. Um, all right.
Portable speed sign with radar and
cameras.
Yeah, you could set it up in different
spots in town, chain it to a something
and see, but Eric Eric is is is truly
the pessimist and he's like, "Somebody
will will damage the sign and we will
have other issues." So,
hey, we'll put a game camera on it. It's
not a problem. Well, we had three and
now we had one. And the last time we
tried the game camera thing, um the
resident trooper had a bunch of his game
cameras stolen. And at one point he even
put hid one game camera looking at to
try to catch the guy stealing his other
camera and he got them both stolen. So
our luck with that has not been
superior. Unfortunately, two out of the
three speed sign feedback signs that we
have had have both been destroyed. you
know, and at four to six thousand bucks
a pop. All right. Even though we didn't
pay for them, that's still a
unfortunate.
Okay. Uh, anyone else have any other
conversation they want to have around
the traffic around the lake?
Can I add one more thing? Sure. Go
ahead. And that is that
uh speaking of future grant
opportunities, um within the proposed
plan of conservation and development, um
we do have a fairly extensive section
that deals with complete streets and
vision zero and traffic safety in
general. And part of the reason that we
made sure that was in there is because
for future grant applications, I want to
be able to point directly to the plan of
conservation and development and say,
"We're asking for money and here's why."
So, we're laying the groundwork for
future grant submissions regarding
traffic safety in the town through the
plan of conservation development.
Uh, Ann, you had something else?
I was just going to say I I know I last
month spoke about maybe putting in speed
humps. Um I know that no probably no
solution is perfect. Uh and people will
say, "Oh, we need to do something about
the speed, but then when you put
something in, they'll be one of the
first ones complaining that it's
annoying or something like that."
Nothing is perfect, but I do think it's
good that we keep looking and maybe see
what's going on with the uh cameras in
Marboro. Um, working with a state
trooper, all these things will be
useful. And my experience with speed
humps had been like one speed hump on a
mileong stretch of road. It was curvy
like it is around the lake. And uh that
did help to slow people down at that
point. Um, sure. It didn't help slow
them down all the way around, but it
helped. So, we'll keep looking.
Okay. All right. Um, 8E Bunker Hill
Bridge update.
So,
we uh got through the initial problem
with dealing with the telecom companies.
That's been resolved. They're back
working on the bridge. As we know, we
had a lot of rain, so they had about a
week where they couldn't work because
it's over the the flood uh dam. Um so
you can't pump out the water when it's
flowing over the top of the retaining
wall. Um so that should be down low
enough today that they can start
working. So the first thing that's got
to happen is that very first culvert has
to be removed. They didn't get to that
before it flooded the last time. So
hopefully this week that gets removed
and then they start moving the channel
barrier so they can remove the other two
uh culverts in the road. So we're still
on track. We had a couple of delays, but
nothing really super critical at this
point.
Much time did we lose with the telecom
people?
Three weeks.
Just want to get that recorded.
Okay. Any uh any questions related to
the Bunker Hill project?
Okay. We're going to move on to item 8F,
the OSHA update. Um Eric provided pretty
much his OSHA update and in his tongue
administrator's report. Anyone have any
additional questions for him?
Okay. Uh let's move on to uh item 9 a
Andover's finest update.
[Music]
Um Eric had given us uh some information
that's in our packet related to
Andover's finest.
Um, I think all of us on the board uh
should engage with people in the
community like Diane Grineer or um some
of the uh Kathy Plazy and some of the
older citizens and we should sit there
and come back with some um internal
recommendations that I would like us to
just email internally um so that we can
communicate on this project. and and I
mean we have some some tremendous
candidates that we should sit there and
consider for Andover's finest. And the
one thing that we really need to do is
we need to determine how we're going to
honor them and where we're going to
honor them. So, if you guys want to
think about that, I think it's uh it's
something that we should do that I think
we need to get around to being positive
and having people that we
uh we applaud for their efforts.
Can I just ask I know that Paula had
brought this up. I think it was last
year. I was trying to do some research
on it. Was there criteria set up? I know
that I saw a little bit but I didn't
know if there was like criteria as to,
you know, if they've served the town for
five years without compensation.
There wasn't any criteria like that,
Carol. But I I will sit there and get
with Paula and I'll sit there and see
what she she has still in her uh her
folders. U but we didn't I don't think
we had any criteria because Scott
um who were the individuals and I
apologize. Who are the individuals that
we did recognize? And I know there were
they were they were um I think we we did
Mrs. Gasper. I think we did
John Hanfield and John Hanfield at the
time. I think those were the three.
We're Are we going to think of an
alternative to the bricks or
No, actually that's See, now you bring
my mind to it. Yeah, we were we were
going to do bricks. I remember that. We
were going to do a walkway at the
community center.
Do we have an area that we can do that
or do we want to do that, Eric? Do we
have an area where we can do that still?
Uh we
certainly as part of the community
center planned on eventually taking the
sidewalks and filling in the remaining
area with bricks to produce a patio. So
we could still do that um if that's what
the town wants to do. Yeah. And Jeeoff,
we could use we could just blank it out
with bricks and then then fill them in
with names as
we you know people. I'm just wondering,
should this be a committee thing or
should this be just a board of
selectment thing? I'm just wondering if
we should
have committee of five people nominating
or putting forth names that they feel
should be considered. Yeah. Considered.
We don't we don't really have we don't
really have the full picture of the town
and you know, maybe there's other people
that see other things that are going on
and would have other individuals that
should be nominated.
I think that they that Paul asked it to
be brought to the board to be vetted,
but I think online I think it was an
online it was it was an online
submission form originally on the
website.
[Music]
I think it's still there. Yep. I I'll
tell you what. Let's um let's each and I
have no problem with that because I know
there's there's people like Scott and
Carol and Diane Grineer that have been
in this town a lot longer than I have
been and and understand a lot more of
the history.
Um so I I have no problem with a
committee bringing recommendations to
the board. I mean they get we get the
submissions through the website and they
review them and then they bring
recommendations to us and we just vote,
you know, we vote. Okay. Yes or no? I'm
just it would be it'd be a good way to
get the community involved and and and
keep it moving forward.
Okay. Um so let's sit there and request
[Music]
um uh let's put out a request for
committee members for Andover's finest.
If we can do that, Eric,
that would be
great. And then we should stare
and you
know you know I believe we should do
them like once once every six months or
once one person a quarter one person
every six months so that we're not
overwhelming and we can at least try to
work to tell the story of that
individual because I do think it's
important for people to understand let's
say like a gentleman like Percy Cook and
how much land he donated for the benefit
of the community and I know Mrs. Mrs.
Gasper put in a tremendous amount of
time.
John Hanfield with the walls and yeah,
John Hanfield did a lot of volunteer
work to sit there and for the benefit of
the community. So, and and
beautifification all the flowers he did.
Yeah. The heart down at the old town
hall on the on the road, which is a very
nice
touch in that area. Makes it look very
nice. the town website still has on it
the eligibility criteria suggestions and
things like that still on there. Well,
maybe if we sit there and get some
people to participate outside of the
board, we'll get uh more of a flow of
information and opportunities to sit
there and put people into, you know, the
ring of honor for Andover, let's call
it. So, or the bricks of honor. The
bricks of honor. Yeah.
Okay. Okay. Does anybody have any other
issues related to that?
Okay, we'll move on to 9B, vendor
permit. Uh we have a permit from
um uh Trinity
Solar for a salesperson by the name of
Jason
Brer. Any issues related to the
approving the vendor per Trinity Solder
Solar?
Do we need more Trinity Solars? I mean,
we've already authorized either two or
three Trinity Solar reps in the town of
Andover. I feel like we're kind of at
saturation personally. Well, I talked to
one of them and they said these people
keep getting promoted into other
positions. So, then the new people come
and look for the the approval to work in
town. Yeah. So that's is that So are
they a replacement or are they the third
rep that we're going to have walking
around the top? I think they're mostly
replacements.
Okay. You can check with Trinity Solar,
but I asked a guy that came around the
neighborhood and asked him about that.
Okay. I
mean, at least they come and they
register. Yeah. At least they're doing
their due diligence. Yeah. I mean, so I
don't really have a problem with proving
it because I'm assuming what Ann says is
accurate in that we're not getting four
reps in town. We're just getting a
continuous replacement and the position
keeps getting turned over and what
they're doing is doing
their, as Jeff said, their due diligence
and
just signing up
for their license.
[Music]
So, I have no problem. I'll make a
motion that we approve the the Trinity
vendor license for
uh the Trinity Solar Rep Jason Breer for
the period of April 2025 through April
of 2026.
Seconded. All right. Further
discussion. All those in favor? I
That is five nothing as well.
Okay. Um, item 9 C, an event permit. We
have an event permit for the Funky
Monkey Artisan Fair that is being to be
held. And
[Music]
uh, so I can talk you through the only
thing that really
requires the only reason why they're
really even submitting an event permit
because they're not really parking on
town property. um they've done this a
number of times is that every year they
ask for help from the circ team um and
because of this uh Amber who runs the
cert team requested that you know they
get the blessing of the town therefore
they can the cert team she can fill out
ascend it into the state for the cert so
that's predominantly what this is for
Um uh listen, I have no no problem with
um and over over and over and
um the Fitch family farms throwing this
event. I think it's a great thing for
the community. Let's make the motion.
Yeah. I'll make a motion that we approve
uh the town of Andover event permit for
the Funky Monkey Artisan Fair to be held
um well, it's going to be held twice.
It's going to be held in June of 2025
and October of 2025.
Seconded.
All those in favor or further
discussion? Anybody? Sorry. Further. All
those in favor? I I 5 nothing. Okay. On
um 9E, review of assessments change
changed by building permit inspections.
Uh there's one more before this. I'm
sorry. 9D. Um uh registar of voter
request. So we have a request in our
packet from the register of voters who
are both on this meeting. Um I'll read
it. We have we
Um, we have now received all the new
voting equipment. The six tabulators
have filled the space in the downstairs
storage closet. We need to offload three
of them in order to keep the space
accessible and OSHA compliant. We
propose that the bounce house and the
popcorn machine that are currently being
stored in the downstairs vault be
located to the downstairs of the
community center to clear space for
these three tabulators, two computers,
two printers, and all that require
storage. Thanks for your consideration,
Linda and
Wall-E.
[Music]
Um, I guess Carol, I would ask you
because those pieces of equipment are
related to the recreation committee
commission. Is there any problem with
moving them to the downstairs of the
community center? The only concern is if
there's mice
there. And the only other concern too is
that lower vault is supposed to be kept
locked. We've just been leaving it open,
unlocked. Um, so that's the only other
thing.
Well, I would hope that it would get
locked with the voting machines in
there.
Well, what what are your comments on
this?
Oh, Eric.
Uh, I requested the rec commission move
it to the community center multiple
times, so I I have no issues with it.
Um, there's space designated for it. Um,
so I think that's appropriate.
Okay. But I'm not the one that made this
request. That came from the registars.
No. Uh, Carol has a point though. Let's
ask let's um have we ever gone to a pest
control? I mean, first of all, I don't
think there's any real food issues over
there, but have we Eric, have you
considered going to like Erlic or or one
of the pest control places to just put
out traps just to make sure
that we don't have a pest control issue
at the I mean, do we even do it at
school? I don't even know. Like, I'm
just Yeah, Jeff, it's not food. They
sometimes they like the taste of the
plastic and stuff. No, no, no. I
understand that. But what I'm saying is
like for for my facilities, we you know
for food issu food the base station
safety issues you have services that
provide traps around the exterior of the
building and do some pest control in
advance and you know might be something
that we think about just to make sure we
don't have any mice that want to get in
that area or and I'm sure Carol we could
probably sit there and put something
down there that would keep mice out
anyway. Um, it's a brand new building.
It's It's not mouse proof. It's got to
be mouse proof, but you never know. You
can get in anywhere. They can get
anywhere. Um, the fire department has um
people come in. I don't know if it's
monthly, but they do come in for the
mice. Okay. So, we we do currently have
pest control services, but only at the
transfer station station because it's
the only building that we've I mean,
occasionally we've had issues in the
town hall. To my knowledge, we've never
seen any evidence of issues in the
community center. If we did, we would
address it at that point. We could add
them pretty quickly. Um, it's just a
phone call. Um, if you want to do it
preemptively, we can certainly do that,
too. Well, I'm not sitting there saying
do it. I'm sitting there saying get the
price on it and then let's sit there and
see if it it will, you know, potentially
solve any future problems. But I do
think, Carol, we should move those to
the community center and and carve out.
I mean, this goes into storage space
that I, you know, I've been talking
about related to
the construction that will eventually
take place at the old firehouse. Um, but
I'm assuming, Carol, you would rather
for the recck commission keep the
popcorn maker and the bounce house as
close to where you're going to set it up
as possible. So, we may as well keep it
in that area. I mean, it's it's it's too
bad Eric doesn't have an extra bike
locker because that'd be the perfect
place to put that bounce house because
you could just put it right out. So, you
pull it right out and set it up. But,
unfortunately, we don't have one. But
that would be a great uh that would be a
great solution. I I would Wouldn't you
think the bike locker would be more
prone to mice? No, they're pretty tight.
Pretty tight. Okay.
[Music]
Um, does does anyone have a problem with
us requesting that the space in the
vaults be freed up for the voting
machines?
Okay.
Uh, I mean, Carol, do we need to make a
motion?
I don't think so. No. Okay.
Um, so let's let's have those moved so
we can move that on. Um,
all right. Um, 9E, review of assessments
changed by building department permit
inspections.
So Jeff, this was a request by you last
month for an explanation of how John
Chaponis goes about assessing new uh
structures or changes based on building
permits or other things. So I asked him
to write out and give me three examples
of how he modified
uh based on permits that were pulled.
So that's what he
did.
So I I read it and I understand what
he's saying, but my question was if you
go down into the actual reports there
there
were 29 building permits this month,
right? 26 building permits processed.
And my question really was is did he
evaluate all 26 and if necessary did he
change all the
valuations? I mean I know he says it I
know he says it processing b building
permits because what his report does is
tied to the building department's report
and I get that. What I'm I'm I was
asking is that's his process, but but do
all 29 or 26 of the permits, you know,
how many of those 26 of the permits that
were generated
um turn into additional assessed value,
reassessment.
Well, he gave us three examples. Yeah.
That's why it was nice before we could
see what they were doing to their house,
how much they were spending, and then
you could really tell whether or not
their assessment would go up. We don't
get that
anymore. We just get a number of permits
and then you get a value with the
permits.
Yeah. I mean,
I was really looking at if if there's 26
per building permits issued in the town,
did the assessor's office increase on 13
of them? Did they increase on 15 of
them? Did they increase on three of
them?
Yeah. Or any of them? I mean,
yeah. I
mean, so and and not every one of his
examples is truly a building permit. you
know, he gave us an example where the
owner failed to get the certificate off
and then there's one where the they they
didn't get a permit and he identified it
online from
realtor.com, you know, and he went after
them to increase
their their assessment. And to be really
honest, in the packet, if you guys go
all the way to the
bottom, that report at the end was
extremely interesting. If you really
Let's go back. Let's go down if you guys
all can to page 139. The OPM what? Yeah,
the OPM. Yeah, I was going to ask
questions about that from Eric today.
Yeah, the the assessment is supposed to
be 70%, isn't it? Correct. And and none
of them are 70.
Um
well, some of them are low. A lot of
them are low. Um
most of them are 45. you know, houses,
they're, you know, 45 or somewhere in
there 50. Yeah. I mean, you have Why is
that? Well, look at all the non-usable
ones where you're sitting there with and
I'm assuming that's land, Eric. Is that
accurate?
Uh, what? Tell me where you're at. And
what on in the packet, it's the last two
pages. Page 141. Remember how I asked
you at one point in time that I wanted
to sit there and see all of the home
sales for a certain period of time and
how they they shake out this this report
and and and listen, I I I found the
information. I didn't wait for you. I
already got it. But this is very
interesting and great information for
the community, great information for
Eric, great information to sit there and
go back and tie back to the assessor
because you know like I'll give
you, you know, I mean, you have the 10
Pine Ridge Road. Well, it's assessed at
124 and it's sold for 330. What the
assessor do is do a fair market value.
Fair market value is not getting to
assessed value. Now, he also did the
same. It also has the same thing on 355
Lake Road, which has a higher value and
had a lower assessed value, but sold for
950. And and I know that one was
under that's a problem one, but if you
look at all of them, it was really
interesting. You know, you had you had
and this goes into my whole thing. Let's
look at the one Lakeside Road, which is
at the bottom of page 141. that was at
99% of its correct value. And this goes
into what I have said all along related
to the entire assessment process is that
an area like
Lakeside gets assessed at 100% of its
value. And that doesn't happen all the
time, I will grant you. But there are
certain houses in the Lake area that are
at the max of their sale value. And
there are a lot of homes that are not.
And this is this goes into my whole
concept of the all boats need to float
equally to get the right value for
taxation. And this was a great report
and and Eric you put it at the very end
and I was like wow like this is not sure
why. Yeah. If you want to sit there and
give people an understanding of what's
up and how, you
know, you know, and and listen, it's
um what the assessor does is is not
simple,
but this is an example of it not being
totally equal for every taxpayer. And
it's not it's not equal for the town,
Jeff. I mean, look at the Bazula Road
property. I
mean that was that's an interesting one.
So and and actually that's a question
this is really the question I wanted to
ask you on this and it's something that
has to be tied back into the reports. Is
the assessed value 70% of the number or
is it is it
the the
value after assessment? It has to be
70%. That's what it has to be. But I was
really interested in this report, Scott
and Carol, Jeff. It was really
interesting information um as to like 55
Pineriidge Road. It's assessed at
$154,000. Okay, you take that and you
want to get to 70% and the house sold
for 355. That was in that's really
really interesting information. So, if
you get all boats to float equally and
you get your assessments in a in a in a
better state, then everybody feels as if
they're what they're paying taxes on is
is appropriate because some of us don't
feel that way to be really
honest. Okay, let's move on from that.
But that is uh something else that I'd
like the assessor to sit there and take
a look at. let us know what he thinks
about the report from OPM if
possible.
Um Scott got kicked off of the meeting
so he lost his internet connection so
let's see if he can get back
on but we'll keep moving. Um
uh 9F the town website review committee
discussion. Eric, where are we and how
who's the website review committee right
now?
It is no one right now. you asked to put
it on the agenda for this meeting to see
whether the board wanted to uh consider
a review committee
uh for the website.
I absolutely think we should
[Music]
um the only person who said anything to
me about that is Scott Soyette after he
heard that commentary volunteered for
it. So well that's all I can give you.
What we should do is advertise for that
as well as far as a committee goes.
Okay. How many people do you want on the
committee and what is their mandate?
Uh no more than five. And and to give us
appropriate recommendations as to uh
improvements to the website and
any support that they can give us to
help that get executed. Anybody else
have any items there what they would
like to see added to that
committee? And are you looking for a
complete update to the website and are
you willing to finance that or are you
looking for
lesser suggestions? What is it? What is
your goal? a complete revamp of the
website because that's typically done
about every five years or do you want
something less extensive?
I would like to Jeb, I'd like to see any
navigation issues just easier ways to
find information if there's any
roadblocks to or there's any hidden
information just ways that people can
access information
easier, right? And any recommendations
they would have and that would just be
hyperlinks and just adding pages. I
don't think it would be a full revamp.
Well, you can you can call it do a a a
thorough review of all websites
functions and features and then you know
listen if if people sat there and said
that
[Music]
u we needed to do a complete revamp of
the website I would listen to it. I
mean, we'd have to find the funding for
it,
but I have no problem with
that. So, I mean, listen, anybody that
is good at website and and has done
their own website or is in that
industry, they're going to come and tell
us there's like 50 things that we should
do. And Jeff, there's a there's a how do
I section, right? If you put a drop down
like how do I and put a bunch of things
in there like how do I pay my taxes? How
do I find events in town? How do I you
know make a click to send you certain
places. Okay. I I have they can come up
with every I will listen to every
recommendation. I mean if we can afford
it we'll do it and if we
can't we sit there and try to put it in
a future
budget. Okay. Scott joined us back. Um,
is there any other issues related to the
town website review committee discussion
other than ask for volunteers and give
them a a preliminary mandate as to what
we'd like to see
happen?
Okay. Uh, 9G mowing contracts.
Okay. So, as some of you probably know
and others of you don't, uh, the town
has been, uh, subbing out their mowing
to Andover Landscaping for quite a bit
longer than I've been the town
administrator. Andover Landscaping has
gotten out of the mowing business
because they were losing money on it.
So, I went out and solicited bids from
four vendors for mowing. Um, I asked for
a bid from Naturcape. I asked for a bid
from A Cut Above. I asked for a bid from
Sears and Suns and VIP Lawn and Land
Care, which is not in Andover, but is
right over the border uh in Coventry on
South Street.
Um,
Naturcape has decided that they didn't
want to bid on it. Um, I had verbally
corresponded and followed up with a
couple of emails with Sears and Suns,
but I had not really gotten they
initially expressed interest, but
they've never gotten back to me. Uh, I
got a quote back from a cut above, which
is uh the Fitch family, and I got a
quote back from VIP Lawn and Landscape.
Um, a cut above was
significantly less expensive, but it is
quite a bit more expensive than what we
used to pay for and over landscaping.
Um, but I think that's in part the
reason why they've stopped uh offering
that service is because they weren't
making any money on it. So the question
and concern I have for you is that
uh because so my preference would be to
use Fitch um because he's an andover
resin and he's the low bidder. However
um I know the board has had concerns uh
in the past with businesses that are in
a rears of their taxes and I would tell
you that that is the case with them. So
my question to you is how do you as a
board want to proceed or what do you
want to do?
How much more is it than our budgeted
amount?
Uh well our budgeted amount includes we
just lump the mowing in with
uh with the field mowing and the field
mowing is the majority of the costs. I
would say this is going to be2 to3,000 a
year more than what we were paying in in
the past.
What did VIP give you for the number?
Uh they
were let's see about
240 bucks so mowing higher than uh cut
above another
$3,000.
Um correct. I have no problem with you
with with the contract being awarded to
cut above. He's he's not going anywhere.
And eventually if we can help an Andover
resident, you know, this is going to
help him. So why not? Why
not? Anybody
else? Okay. I'll make a motion that we
award the
the mowing contract for is it when does
it start, Eric?
So, like right now,
um I'll make a motion that we we award
the mowing contract for
the for the town of Andover to a cut
above.
I'll second that, Jeff. Okay, so Carol
Lee seconded. Uh, further discussion on
this. All those in favor? I I All right.
Five nothing. And we'll talk to Mr.
Fitch about paying his taxes more
timely.
Understood. Thank you. All right.
Um, 9H water found at the Andover
Museum.
Okay. This got kicked off because
somebody who's actually not a resident
but has donated to the Andover Museum uh
multiple times in the past approached
Scott and asked whether the town would
consider putting in a water fountain um
because he was also a rail trail user at
that location. Um so and he would be
willing to foot the cost for the water
fountain uh slashbottle filler and
installation. Um, so and then I also
reached out to DEP
um as well as the Hop River Trail
Alliance to explore with both of those
organizations whether they would be
willing to pay for the annual water
quality testing because it would then
become a public water supply. Um, so
Deep has not responded yet, but David
Buckley said they would likely only do
it uh if we located the water fountain
on DP property. But as you know, part of
DP property comes within say 8 feet of
the side of the actual building. So we
could do that if we had to. Um, but I
think the Hop River Trail Alliance would
agree to reimburse the town for the cost
of the annual water monitoring um, if it
got put to the board of directors. Um,
and that would make more sense because
then we could put it right in front of
the museum as opposed to sticking it off
the side. But before I pursue that
further and ask them officially, that
would be a municipal improvement. I
would like you guys to be on board and
and that be something you would want to
consider. Um, and then I will work on an
824 referral to planning and zoning and
get all our ducks in a row to do that
and come back with a full proposal. I
just don't want to do that if that's not
something you as a board want to pursue.
You should first get the water tested.
I mean, what's the status of the well
down there
that
I mean, it's the water we use to it's
it's what we use to water the grass.
Yeah. Is it potable? Is it potable?
Exactly. So, and another question. How
would we winterize this?
Well, I don't think that was one of the
questions I had. Um because there's an
existing manhole and everything drains
back to the manhole anyway. The drinking
fountain would be set up the same way.
It would just drain back and at the same
time we take the filtration system and
disconnect the irrigation every year. We
would do the same thing for the
fountain. Yeah. It would have to be
blown out either with air or put
antifreeze in it. So that's just
something we'd have to consider as an
additional cost.
So, yep. I mean, does anybody have a
problem with this in theory of putting a
water fountain on the trail? I think it
would be a great addition to the trail.
I think it'd be a great addition, too.
But it's just I would want to make sure
we get the water test. If the water's
potable and we can do it, let's let's
move ahead. But I probably the best
thing to do would probably get the water
tested first. Make sure we don't have
any caulifform or any other bacteria in
there.
[Music]
Well, if if you want to authorize me to
do a water quality testing there, I'm
happy to do it to see whether the
project moves forward. I mean, what's
the cost? Couple hundred bucks. $60
dollars or something, I think. Last time
I had it done, I think.
Now, last time we had it done at public
works, it was considerably more than
that, but
um yeah, it was more like the $350
range. Um in the past, we've used
Colombia Environmental Laboratory. When
they were in business, they were super
cheap, but they're no longer in
business. So, that's the last time I've
had mine done.
Don't we have access
to I mean we could bring it to Phoenix
Laboratories in Manchester and get it
tested, right? And like I said the last
time well they would want to come out
here and sample it. They're going to
certify it as a public water supply. But
we could just have them do it the next
time they're testing
locally if you want to do that.
Yeah, let's let's sit there and give
them a call or give somebody a call and
sit there and see what it's going to
cost us. And if it's if it's under $200
or $250, does anybody have a problem
with Eric doing it? No, I think it's I
think it's a great idea and I, you know,
I would move ahead with the other, you
know, the other steps while in parallel
with the testing, you know, and if it if
if it comes back contaminated or
something like that, then we just we
would have to stop the project. But if
everything tests okay, we can just move
ahead.
Okay. Okay. That's that's my take on it.
Anybody else have a problem with trying
to put water on the trail? Oh, it's a
great idea, but I've seen that water.
[Laughter]
I mean, there's definitely sediment
issues in that water. I I don't think
there's any question about that. Um, so
it would not go in without a filtration
system. That's for sure. I think Jeff
Murray's issue about
col whatever colorform or chloroform is
more of the issue.
We don't want to get people sick. Just
make sure it's a healthy drinking source
and and then if it if it tests good then
like let's let's move ahead with it. And
like I said, you can do those you can do
your other stuff with the trail lines
and everything in parallel with that.
Okay. At least put the fuel. Just the
one thing, Scott. Is that a deep well?
That's a shallow well, isn't it? It's
going up, right? I think it was like 125
or something when we put that pump in
it. All right. That's not bad. Okay. Um,
was yellow.
[Laughter]
All right. 9 I senior transportation
rules for pickup. Um, I know Eric put
them in our
uh our packet. This is something we had
talked about beforehand. Does anybody
have a problem with the rules for
pickup? And Eric, are you asking us for
us to approve them again or you just
wanted to have us see them? No, you guys
had some questions about what our policy
was in terms of curb to curb or what
measures we used
um and how we decided what we could and
couldn't provide. So, that's kind of
what the the conclusions we came to. Um,
and it's been modified a few times based
on concerns we've had with some things
that have happened with the seniors. So,
um, that's kind of what we're putting
out. Um, but if you have modifications
you want to make to it, now's
a now's the time to discuss it.
I mean, I know with the last time we had
a discussion with this, we were trying
to talk
about plowing and and getting uh
wheelchairbound residents
or impaired mobility residents from a
nonshoeveled walk
to an accessible area for the van to get
them in. And that was the last
conversation I remember related to this.
Um, Sure. Sure. But this has come up and
and frankly we have gotten several
complaints or we got several complaints
from that resident who is very unhappy
that we were not providing them service.
Um but you know at the time we all
looked at it and said this is not
something that we can safely get them
from the house to the vehicle. Um and
that was what the decision was uh you
know made for. So when you when when you
get complaints, where do they go?
Uh depends what the complaint is about.
Transportation complaints, where do they
go? Do they go I mean, are they
accumulated so that at some point in
time we can get a briefing on them or an
email on them just because your
complaints are going to let us know if
there's a problem with
the the rules of pickup. I mean, because
we realize that the people that are
going to complain the louder. are the
people that that
that violate one or more of the rules.
And then we have to just sit there and
as a group, I mean, you're doing it
yourself. You're sitting there and
evaluating if that resident is
is in violation of certain items from
the code of conduct or safety or
whatever the issues are. I mean, but I
think it would be helpful for the board
if if we did get a list of complaints at
some point in time. So then we can sit
there and see because I can't tell you I
I wouldn't be able to tell you what
items on here need to be addressed. I
mean, maybe Carol has a different
opinion or Ann of things that might want
to be removed or added, but um I'm just
wondering if we checked with other towns
to see what they have for their
transportation policies and codes of
conducts.
[Music]
I'm assuming that this was this was
based off of another town's as a
starting point. That was Yeah. I think
last time we also talked about that one
person that couldn't get to the bus,
right? Yeah. Right. What could and what
we could do to get that person to the
bus. What What town can I ask that this
was based off of?
I I don't know.
Okay. Because I did go over and check in
Colombia. they don't really have one.
So, that was the only town I was able to
get to
since once we I had the policy and code
of conduct, I was only had time to go to
one town. So, but I was going to try to
go to other towns just to see what they
do for their policies and code of
conduct for people. Um, Colombia
actually does doortodoor is what they
told me. The drivers will help the
people to the door. They just can't step
inside the house.
Yeah. I think our problem was not
necessarily going door to door. Our
problem way to get from the door to the
road or the door to the driveway, right?
The wheelchair. Nothing nothing had been
shuffled was our issue. So, I mean, when
I read this, I didn't see anything that
really I thought was excessive or out of
line. Um, I mean, how many how many
complaints you get a month, Eric, on the
rules?
No. I
mean, so if you take one resident who's
no longer a resident of Andover, who
complained to
me six or seven times, um, I would say
I've gotten complaints from basically
two people. One was regarding access,
not being able to get a resident from
the house to the vehicle. Um, and then
the other one complained about
uh sequentially about all the drivers we
had at one time or another. Um, you
know, about a wide range of things.
Okay. All right. But I don't think they
were complaining about any of the rules
because they don't know what the rules
are, right? They're not in effect yet.
So, people were just complaining about
not being able to get from their door to
the vehicle.
Well, if we could Yeah. I mean,
ordinarily I mean, I think offering it
curb to curb to me is done strictly for
liability reasons. Personally, I don't
want to own getting somebody out of
their house or getting somebody down a
ramp um or anything like that. And I
remember when I was, you know, in a
wheelchair, Ellie made it very clear
that it was my job to get myself across
my gravel driveway, you know, to the
ramp and then, you know, she would take
over from there. But in terms of getting
myself down the ramp from the house or
out the door, that was on me. And I
thought that was reasonable at the time
when I was going. Okay. I guess the
question would be how many people are we
not servicing that need the service and
then we have to determine if we can
adjust the rules or bend the rules you
know and I know we don't want to do that
but that's just something if we don't
understand what the the comments are
from the writers or from the seniors and
we can't tell you what to do or not to
do
right I mean like I said you know I've
gotten complaints
basically from two individuals. Okay.
um you know regarding this well I would
recommend that the other members let's
read this in more detail and we'll we'll
put it on again next month's agenda and
if we have if we hear from any seniors
that are using the service and there's
an issue with any of these
[Music]
um I mean everybody signs this document
that rides
the has everyone signed the document
that rides the buses as far as I No.
Yes. All right. Now, have they read that
document? If they signed it, they
hopefully can read. Doesn't mean they
read it. Just means they signed it.
Okay.
So, let's take a a look at that and then
Eric, if you have any issues and if
anyone on the board hears of any
comments, then we can address the
individual items
on on
the code of conduct, policies and code
of
conduct. Okay. All right. Um, let's move
on to item
9J, senior center updates. the item a
transportation.
So very simply, I sent this to you
separately, but what I would like to do
is hire Linda Derek at least in the
interim to take over the senior
schedule. Um, given that we're going to
be continue to be pretty restricted in
hours for a senior center director, I
would like to take the scheduling
portion out of uh out of the director's
role and whoever the director is will
still maintain overall control of the
senior center but won't be doing
day-to-day scheduling because that is a
pretty significant time suck. uh you
know for whoever has to do that and we
weren't moving towards that with the old
director. Um we just didn't get there
before we changed uh approach.
So this would be a temporary hire or
what what's your plan? Tell us what your
thought is. My plan is let's lock that
up for three months and see how it goes.
And at the end of that three-month
period, if that individual is still
willing to do it, Linda is still willing
to do it, um, and we're satisfied with
it, we keep going. But I think I sort of
feel like whoever is the permanent
replacement for the senior center
director should have a say in in how
that scheduling is done and who she
oversees. That's my personal take on.
Okay.
[Music]
Um, does anybody internally on the board
have a problem with um filling
the transportation position for or the
senior transportation position with
Linda Derek? Any issues, comments,
discussion?
Interim, excuse me, as interim for three
months. Yep.
Um the only the only concern I have is I
would like to almost advertise for this
position and just make her monthtomonth
and then if she comes out to be the
candidate that we want to move forward
with then um we could appoint her at
that
point. I mean that would be my feeling
because I would like to give other
residents an opportunity for the
position as well. I don't want to make
it seem like we're locking into one
individual.
Well, that was the whole goal with me
making it
clear in the proposal that it was a
temporary position. Okay. So, if it's
three months, I mean, to be honest, by
the time we advertise for it, we
interview for that position and we make
an offer, we're probably looking at 90
days anyway. Absolutely. At a minimum.
Yeah. Yep. Well, especially if what Eric
is saying is accurate is that he would
want to hire the senior center director
first and then have the senior center
director be engaged
in the discussions on who the permanent
person in the transportation side would.
So 90 days seems like a legitimate real.
All right. So what So Jeff, I'm just
going to play devil's advocate here and
say let's just go say we go past 90
days. So, is this going to be a 90-day
contract and then it's monthto monthth
after that? Because let's just say we
don't we don't find somebody in 30 in 90
days. Well, sure. But this is also going
to give Linda the opportunity to
determine if she doesn't want to keep
doing it. So,
but we should probably actually
advertise. We should we should advertise
for the position as well. We should we
should advertise for people that would
want to sit there and hold that
position. Um, are you saying advertise
for the temporary position, Jeff? Uh,
no. I think what we we need to do is we
need to we need to advertise for the
senior center director first and then at
the same time advertise for the um
transportation director on a part-time
basis. And then we get the names of
people that would want to fill in for
both. And then you know we sit there and
evaluate who's the best for that
position. I mean be but what Carol what
Eric is really asking is that if the
person is going to supervise that
individual should
have at least a seat at the table to sit
there and say okay that person will work
well with me or not well with me and you
know and that's what he's
saying even though
um yeah I I think what you do is you try
to hire you go through you know we're
going to talk about the hiring committee
or I forgot what that was. We'll do that
later, but we were going to do that
right after we finish the the other
position. But um
so this this will get is looking for
interim interim people. It would really
be like 90 90 days would be the max for
the interim position and theniring. So
this would start May 15th. It would get
us through June, July and August to get
us through the middle of August.
The con the offer letter as written
expires August 14th. Okay. But if we did
do it monthto month, then Linda could do
that longer. Correct. Well, what Jeff
was saying is we do a 90 initial 90-day
contract with 30-day extensions if we
don't have someone identified identified
for the position.
But if we did it monthtomonth, it
wouldn't have a deadline on it. So,
right, it would also not I mean honestly
I mean this is up to Linda, but it it
you would want to lock Linda in or
someone in for 90 days so you could go
through the hiring
process. So, if you did you do it
monthto month, then Linda could leave
after 30 days and then we're back in the
same position. Yeah. But if Linda
doesn't like it, then she's locked in
for three months.
I don't think Linda would leave us.
Okay. to say anything. I'm just Yes. Hi,
Linda. Hi, Linda. How are you? I didn't
see you. I'm good. She's She's good. Um,
just a couple things about about me. I
just had a chance to meet with the
drivers. They're a little shaken, right?
It's it's hard um to not have
consistency. And so I
think you want to give them and the
people who use this program consistency
and assurance. So I think the three
months is good. Honestly, for me
personally, I'm not sure how much beyond
3 months I can do. I start teaching
again in
September. Um, and it's very
timeconsuming. So, I'm willing to
uh give full attention for 3 months or
or less if you don't need me, but
probably wouldn't be able to go much
further than
that. So, that's just me. So, Linda,
you're you're just thinking a three
months three months and out type of
thing. I just wanted to help
until we get to the real plan.
which is to hire the new director and
move forward.
Okay,
that's all. I'll sign off. So, we need
to do this as this is not a permanent
This is not a permanent situation. This
is a temporary three months situation
for me. No, I'm just No, I'm talking as
I'm talking to the board, Linda. I'm
just saying I'm I'm off. Yeah, we're
going to need to we're going to need to
do something relatively quickly to make
sure that that position is filled.
Okay. Well, that's we're going to talk
about permanent bas on a permanent
basis. Yes.
So, I I'll make a motion that we u
authorize er the town administrator to
hire uh Lind Derek as the
temporary transfer senior transportation
coordinator. At what rate?
Um $20 per hour. No benefits provided.
Okay. Just so it's on the record.
And wasn't it how many hours a week was
it for Eric? Was it 10? Up up to 10
hours a week. Up to 10. Okay.
I'll second that.
So authorize Eric to uh to uh Yep. I
thought you made a motion already. Eric,
20 $20 an hour at 10 hours per week.
I'll second that. Okay. Further
discussion. All those in favor? I I I
have nothing. Okay. Um JB interim
director Eric.
So I also sent you all a copy of a
revised job description again for a
temporary director. So realistically,
it's going to take 90 days to make a
decision on what you want to do because
you all have a lot of homework to do on
figuring out exactly what you want out
of this position. So my suggestion to
you is that you go with the revised job
description that I submitted to you and
consider hiring Haley Proto as an
interim director. again for a threemonth
period um to stabilize that long enough
for you to make a permanent come up with
a hiring process, come up with a final
job description and uh make a permanent
decision. Now, I suspect Haley would
like to be considered for the permanent
position, but I also made it clear that
what we were doing at this point is
signing an interim agreement.
Um, you know,
uh, so that's basically what I have to
say on that.
So Haley lives in
Andover and
I'm just curious, was there something
out there about this part-time? Because
uh Haley's letter to us is dated the 2nd
of
May. Was there something put out there
to hire for this position?
It was
not, but
um I had spoken to all of the
contractors that the town was employing
for yoga and other things. And in my
conversations with her, she said that
was something she would consider. And I
asked her at the time to submit to me a
resume and an offer letter.
We're so you're employing the
contractors at the community center or
they're just coming in as private
contractors and we take a portion of
what they collect. Is that correct?
Regardless of how you want to view it,
we
have arrangements with these with yoga
instructors. We had one for Tai Chi, you
know, everything from haircuts to you
name it.
And so Haley provided you the resume,
you provided us the resume, and what
you're looking to do is do the same
thing with Haley
to fill the void until the hiring
committee hires someone. Correct.
Okay. Um, how many hours would this
position be now that you're splitting
it?
uh 20 hours a week.
Okay.
I think maybe we should keep it at
19, especially if it's going to be a
temporary, you can do 19, but I
think related to MURF, if you're only
hiring temporary
employees, you're not, and I could check
on this, you're not required to pay MURF
if it's a temporary employee.
Okay. So, our issue, but if you want 19
hours instead of 20 hours, that's up to
the board.
Wow. I just think if we're going to do
anything with it, um, and I would just
hesitate on this one, hiring a
three-month temp because if we advertise
and we get someone that comes in that
stands out
and, you know, we're tied into a
three-month contract. But if we were to
just do week to week the n up to 19
hours a week as needed because it might
not be needed 19 hours a
week with Linda doing the
transportation.
Well, isn't the point to have the
building
open? I mean, so 19, but I believe four
hours a day. Most of the contractors
have the keys. So, like when they're
having the chair yoga on Monday,
um I know some of the evening Linda I
think is the only one with an evening
program. I think she has a key.
Okay. Is there um just so I understand
it, I know we used to have 19 hours as a
ballpark
for a lot of different reasons to not
sit there and have benefit issues. Um,
listen, if that's if that's the choice,
let's let's do it. If we can sit there
and move forward, uh, I think it's in
the community's best
interest. So, if someone wants to make a
motion on Haley, that would be great.
Go ahead, Jeff. make the motion.
You know, when Bob Burbank was on this
board, he never made one motion. Okay.
He never made a motion ever. You make
I'll second it. Yeah, I get it. Motion
to make Haley the interim director for
19 hours a week for for a three-month
period. For a three-month period at what
rate,
Eric? $20 an hour. Eric, what's the
hourly rate? $34 an hour.
$34 an hour. Got made the motion for 20,
though. I'm going to I'm going to change
my motion. Hang on a second. I I'll
motion
to have Hi. Haley Proto be the interim
director for three months for $34 an
hour for a threemonth period.
19 hours per week. 19 hours a week. I'll
second
that. Okay. Further discussion. I just
have one thing. Haley, is that
acceptable to you?
Well, she can. I don't
have Oh, she is sir.
That is acceptable.
Okay, that's acceptable to me, sir.
Okay. Uh, further
discussion. All those in favor? I
So that's five nothing as
well. Okay.
Um
9JC discussion and possible action on
community community center staff hiring
committee. So
um Eric provided us the previous or
provided us an email since this was
being added. I asked him to provide us
information as to who was on the
previous committee. There's a four
member committee.
Um, Derek, when did you do that? You did
it late in the day, did you? I can't
find it now. Yeah, I sent it late. Uh,
well, you asked me late, so I sent it to
you late.
Yes, you sent it to the other one. So,
um, there were four people on that
committee. One was Eric. Uh, one was
myself. Uh, the grant commission chose
Anarie Dagel. And uh there was an
outside person who is uh Ann Marie
Sunard who is the human services
coordinator and past community center
director for
Coventry. Correct. Coventry that's
correct. And you as a board approved
that hiring committee u prior to us
doing that
and you know you were the board's
selection. Um, Eric, we're we're um yes,
the board did and the board approved all
the hiring issues and everything else
related to it. So,
um, Eric gave us an email and
um, uh, now the question is is what does
this board and who does this board want
as part of the hiring committee
for moving forward?
I think I mean let's let's do the group
of people like we want an outside person
who has experience right yes of the
senior center we would we would like one
member of the board of selectmen we
should get one member from the rec
commission and um
well are we going to continue to have
the wreck commission part of the purview
for this job because it sounds like
based on previous discussions
You're not really on board with that.
Are there other members of the board
that are
not on board with having the community
center director
uh work with the rec commission if we
can get it done this time?
I'd love to see the rec director work
with the rec commission.
Okay. think that would be good to work
with the rec commission, but we may also
need a part-time person to do the
evening programs that the rec commission
would probably be involved with. Okay,
that is absolutely true, but let's deal
with the hiring committee. So, um I' I'd
like to see that something put out for
various positions, see who we get for
resumes, and let the committee come back
to us with their recommendations. And
what we tell them is we want to have
coverage at in the evenings. We want to
have coverage during the day. We want to
have oversight of the senior
transportation director or that
position, whoever takes that 10-hour
spot.
Okay. Works with the rec commission.
Okay. So,
um, we need an outside
person, someone from the rec commission,
and we should have two members from the
board of selectmen because we're not
going to have Eric be part of the hiring
committee
uh to move
forward. Anybody on the board have a
problem with that configuration?
No, I'm just saying I'd be happy to
serve on that. Um, should it should it
be five members, Jeff, just in case we
have a stalemate or you I think that was
probably Yeah, be a great idea. We have
a fifth member. Uh, well, let's maybe
from the public. Let's let's get
somebody from the public at large.
Someone someone at large. Maybe Diane
Grineer would participate. Yeah,
exactly. Okay. Um, and maybe not Diane
Grineer, but someone from outside of the
elected circle. Correct. Okay. Somebody
from the somebody that has a good sense
of the community. All right. So, maybe
Linda Derek would do it.
So we will sit there and say two members
of the board of selectmen
uh a member of the rec
commission and then we would sit there
and have uh an outside individual with
experience within community center
senior
center for other for another town. I
just wanted to say if Colombia was
willing to do it, um, she was very nice,
the director. I was actually extremely
impressed with the woman from Coventry.
I She was she was very I didn't meet
her. I didn't know if she'd want to do
it again, but I'm just saying I did talk
with her over there. Okay. Well, we'll
find someone and Eric, we'll put that on
you to find an appropriate uh municipal
representative. That's possible.
Um, if that's okay with everybody, that
would be a five member hiring committee.
That hiring committee would come back
and refer back to the board of selectmen
the the the chosen candidate just like
was done last time. And then it would be
to the board of selectmen to approve the
hiring of th that candidate. And then
from there, we would move on to unless
you want to do it at the same time.
Well, that's that's not what Eric has in
mind,
but as soon as we would also be taking
job um or candidates for the director
for the transportation program at the
same time. And Jeff, I know you
mentioned we also could take job
candidates
for an
evening. I mean, that position needs to
really be filled by someone truly. Like,
you know, if we could fill all the
positions with people in town, that
would be great. But the evening one
definitely has to be filled by somebody
in town. I I just think we need to put
the ad out and you know advertise and
see who we get that's interested and
then we can I think that I think the
good goal I think the goal of the
community would be to find the right fit
um for those individuals for what they
could serve at the community
center what times. All right. So, I'll
make a motion that we appoint a hiring
committee made up of two members of the
board of selected, a member of the rec
commission, a a member of the community
at large, and a local um municipal
employee who has experience in uh senior
center and wreck center uh background.
Seconded. Right. And I'm going to add to
that and we advertise for the local
representative. And can we do that for
this week? Can we put that in the river
this week? It's Monday, so we should be
able to put it in tomorrow. Yeah, let's
get it. Let's get it in as soon as
possible. All right. So, well, hold on.
Hold on. You don't have a job
description yet. So, you're gonna have
to come up with a job description. This
is This is for the person to serve at
large.
on the hiring committee. Ah, okay. This
is not for the job description that
we're going to work with you on to sit
there and get ready so that we can
advertise for people to apply. Actually,
all the committees, all these committees
that we decided on tonight should be in
the River East for Friday. Correct. Yes.
And um and that's why we're giving 90
days because we have plenty of time to
to
to form this committee and make this
decision. Okay.
So, um, do we have any further
discussion on the the committee and the
the makeup of the committee, the hiring
committee? Anything? Anybody have any
issues?
All right. I just kind of have
one thing.
If I were you, I would consider putting
together a panel of senior center and
community center directors from other
towns because I personally think your
expectations are probably somewhat
unrealistic. But I don't want you
hearing that from me. I think you should
have that discussion with people who
actually do this job um and come to
whatever conclusions you're going to
come to about staffing and priorities. I
I I think that's a great idea and I
think that what we should do is we
should take uh our preliminary job
description and go to individuals like
that and have them evaluate it and tell
us what they think our expectations are
because personally my expect I don't
have expectations related to job
description because I don't have it in
front of them. So um I think I don't
think we're there yet Eric is what I'm
saying. So this is about the hiring
committee and and first step moving
forward which is to fill out the hiring
committee and then once we fill out the
hiring committee we'll sit there and
work on the next step which is a job
description and then we'll go from job
description to advertise for the people
and move on. But yes do do I think it
would be a great idea to get some input
from Colombia's senior center director
and Bolton's and Coventry. Yes, I I
think that it's all good ideas. So
who committee members are I mean if I
happen to serve on this committee I will
definitely be reaching out to other
centers and getting a good feel for what
is needed.
So I'm going to visit other senior
centers too like Marboro. I've been
looking at a lot of their stuff online.
They have a great morning program where
they have two and three year olds come
into the sen the center with the
seniors.
And I was just in Colchester the other
day, so I have a good feeling for what's
going on. I I went to go I was there
uh with a family member. So I got to get
a good feeling of what's going on there.
And that will give us better insight too
going around and just asking questions.
[Music]
Um okay. So we have not voted.
Um, we have not voted on the
uh on the makeup of the committee. So,
if there's no further discussion, I'd
like to get that motion off the floor.
So, all those in favor of the committee
establishment, two members of the board
of selectmen, a member of the rec
commission, a uh a member of the atlarge
citizens non-elected official, and a
uh an employee of a
local community center. That was how it
was worded in that ballpark, those five
individuals. We all good? All those in
favor? Hi. All right. 5 nothing.
Um, so,
uh, I think, uh, when does the rec
commission meet, Carol? Tomorrow night.
Just before the town meeting. Just
before the town meeting. Okay.
[Music]
Um, let's let's get the two people
selected. So, I know that I would sit
there and do it. I did the last one. I
thought it was fine. I know Carol sat
there and said she'd do it. Jeff said
that he said he do it. Scott, are we all
willing to do it? And now we have to
come down to two.
Who? Jeff. Is Ann willing to do it? Yes.
Jeff and Jeff?
Ann's willing to do it though. Correct.
So, we have all of
us. Okay.
Um, I'm fine with any one of us doing
it. If it's not me, it's fine.
Well, to be really honest, we should
split this
up. There should be one from the yeses
and one from the
nos. It's fine with
me.
Okay. Who wants to do it?
So, out of out of the other side, who
wants to have one of the
people make a motion to nominate someone
that you want on there? Well, since
since Carol's on the rec commission, um,
she may end up being one of the for the
red commission. Um, I don't know, unless
you want to do it, Carol. Um, I'm fine
with Ann doing. I will nominate Carol
Lee for I would be fine. I'd be fine.
I'd be fine with Anne doing it as well.
I would be so that we do not have that
conflict of Carol being the nominee from
the wreck commission. Okay.
Somebody want to second that one? Second
that. Okay. So, so Carol would be one of
the one of So, we're going to vote right
now to put Carol, right? So, all those
in favor of having Carol Lee be
appointed to the the hiring committee, I
Okay. And then and Carol of course is
gonna abstain because she can abstain.
Yep. But just for just for the record,
Carol's abstained. Okay. So it's zero
that Carol be appointed. Okay. So Scott,
do you want to do this or do I want to
do this? Maguire, you're
Okay. So you may you go ahead and
nominate me. I nominate Jeff Magcguire
for the
candidate for the yeses. The yeses. The
nos committee. I'll I'll second that. We
were the nos. All right.
Okay. All those in
favor. All right. All All those opposed,
I'll abstain. So
401. Okay.
[Music]
Um so that is the end of that item. Uh
9J
uh 9K uh set a date for a special
election for a town clerk. So based
upon, you know, where we're currently at
within the town clerk's office, um, and
because we need the appropriate amount
of time, we need to really set a an
election date which would correspond to
the state and local elections to be held
uh, November, and I don't know the exact
date, but Carol, do you know that date?
I
don't. Uh, Dennis O'Brien, do you know
the date that we're holding the November
elections?
Yeah, I'll find out. I don't I don't
know. I I thought it was the seventh,
but maybe that was last year. I I I
think I have the election calendar
somewhere on my desk. Yeah. Give me one
second. I might have it. The first
It's in the secretary's
election calendar. No, that's not it.
First Tuesday after the first Monday in
November. November 4th, 2025. It's the
fourth. Okay. November 4th.
So, um
So, from what I understand, we have we
have uh an election November 4th, and
what we need to do is put the town clerk
on the ballot for that period, and we
need to allow the parties to nominate
uh candidates because the way that the
timing works is is they'd have to
nominate candidates in J July, then
there'd be a potential primaries in
August and there would be individuals on
the ballot for November. And I believe
that that's the the fairest way for us
to do this at this point in time rather
than sitting there and appointing any
one for the remainder of the term.
Um, anybody have any problems with us
doing this in this manner?
All right.
Um, and then I'll make a motion that we
um
inform the Connecticut Secretary of
State and the local party chairpeople
that we will be holding an election for
uh town clerk uh in the 2025 municipal
election to be held November 4th.
I'll second that. All right. Further
discussion on this
topic. All those in favor? I
five nothing.
Okay. So we will move on from that. Um
so before we get off that subject since
uh that is the way you want to word it
then we do need to officially sign a
employment letter with Britney Comtock.
Um, I sent a copy of that to you. Um, I
would like you to authorize me to sign
that
as the assistant town clerk. as the
assistant part-time as the assistant
town clerk uh a union position in local
1303-368
um at an hourly wage of
$2060 per hour per appendix A of the
ASME
contract and the only thing that I'm
going to suggest as part of that is
because the existing contract states
that if the town clerk is gone for any
reason, the assistant is allowed to work
extra hours if and only if the town
clerk sends a letter requesting that
from the town administrator. And since
there's
no town clerk, my suggestion is that in
the office letter, I state explicitly
that she's allowed to exceed those hours
as
needed up to the 34 hours. Um because I
don't there's nobody to authorize her to
work extra hours other than herself,
right? So I would like to do it as a
blanket
policy. Um, and I sent that to you uh a
couple of days ago to review. Okay. I I
don't I don't have a problem with the
contract. I have a problem with the
hours and and what I'm after what what
that that'll be impacted by is the
Carol billing in the situation. So, um,
can I can I chime in on this on on a on
a tangential issue that I've been
looking at if if you don't mind. Uh, and
that is the question of whether town
attorney Dennis O'Brien. Thank you. Uh
that is the question of whether Britney
as assistant town clerk can appoint
other assistants which might take at
least one other assistant which might
take care of the problem you have with
her having to work extra hours. Um, I
believe that it's more likely than not
that general statute
7-9 since there is no since uh she is
authorized since there is no town clerk
official town clerk she is not she is
authorized to do whatever the town clerk
uh can do and I believe that would
include appointing assistants under
another separate statute. So that that
is something that uh I've grappled with
for about a week off and on because it
is a complex issue. But uh I think that
uh given
7-9 that statute I believe that she
could appoint assistance and that would
that would enable her to work uh less
than you know the the the number of
hours that Eric is suggesting. If that's
a problem.
Yeah, that's a problem. So, I think I
think common sense common sense tells me
that's a problem. I think I just gave
you the answer. Yeah. Okay. If you want
to accept it, I'm just an adviser.
Okay. So, just a solution. What was your
solution? Other than telling us that she
could hire an assistant.
That's it. That would that that would
give you more hours in the You're
already You're already going to have
Well, Eric brought I I'm I'm sitting
there in my head and Carol, I'm just
going to sit there and go like I don't I
don't want to have that office have
additional hours if at all like that are
not necessary. So
um it is a very convoluted issue because
we have to deal with with the next step
with the next piece of this. So um okay
um we're going to need some extra
because we're going to be we've got the
trans we got the stickers coming up too.
So yeah, I mean I don't I don't have I
don't have
um I will I will personally and listen,
I don't mind you signing a contract with
Britney. I mean, but she's already the
assistant Tom Clark and she's already
uh part of the union, right? That is
correct. I don't remember ever signing
Have we signed contracts with any of the
other assistants?
Yeah. Have we signed offer letters?
Yeah, we've signed offer letters with
every other assistant.
Okay. Well, let's sign an offer letter
with her, even though I know this has
already been done. And
um to be really honest, approval of
those extra hours really should go and I
know the town clerk is separate. I mean
this is this is where it gets convoluted
but
um we cannot allow Britney to
work excessive amounts of hours even
though she can't. She has three
children. It's not going to happen. But
reality
is the way you worded it was an
unlimited
hours and that doesn't work for me. It
was not unlimited. to 34. 34. Since
there is no currently no town clerk and
the employee is the acting town clerk,
this is a blanket authorization to work
up to 34 hours per week from 26 as
needed until such time as a town clerk
is elected or appointed. Okay. Period.
All right. I have no problem with that
then. and sign the off get an offer
letter prepared and and send it to the
board so that we can see it before it
goes to Britney. Does anybody have a
problem with that? Uh I did send that
was one of the documents I sent you. I'm
going to have to reread that and get
back to you. Okay. So, I'm not
authorized to sign it yet. You're gonna
the board is going to do what? You're
gonna we'll email you and just read it.
Makes it real. Is Dennis Is is Dennis is
Dennis read that contract?
No, I I have not been consulted about
this because he he has a labor attorney
that he uses to uh give him advice on
labor law, which I'm not an expert on. I
know some, but I don't know. I I've
never majored in labor law. And most
towns I've ever worked in, I have not
done labor law. But I'll tell you, I I I
I am bothered by the fact that this
position is in the union. It it is
bothersome to me. If it's required,
okay, I I don't know the answer to that.
Listen, Dennis, you can't We have
positions in our town that are in the
union that are bothersome above and
beyond this one. Well, this is a pointed
a position appointed by the town clerk.
I know. It's just it's just ridiculous.
An assistant town clerk position. So, um
it's it's Give us to give us to read it
and can we all respond back to to Eric
if there's any problems with
that offer letter? Sure. Do we want to
give him a deadline? Like can we do it
by
Wednesday? Why Wednesday? Fine. By
Wednesday. So, let's all just get back
to him and make sure that none of us
have any major reservations. I don't
think Is all right. Is it all right if I
make a written comment to the board on
it on on the suggestion I made before?
You can do that, Dennis. Yeah, you.
Okay. Because I think the solution that
I offered you is a better one than what
Eric is is offering.
Okay. Um, then explain it to me because
I didn't understand it. And I my it's
simple. Well, it's it's I believe that
under certain stat a certain statute,
Britney as assistant town clerk can
appoint another assistant town clerk,
thereby decreasing her need to work at
additional hours herself.
It's a it's a um
um that's why I didn't understand it
because we're going to go on to this
next issue related to Carol which
is Okay. Okay. I'll wait for them. All
right. Well, well, Dennis, you haven't
seen the the contract letter that Eric
has, right? So, Eric needs to send that
to you first and then you can come. I
haven't seen it. No. Yeah. So, Eric need
to send that to Dennis and let Dennis
respond. Yeah. What Dennis is saying is
she can appoint somebody else as an
assistant because she's having the I
mean, this is this is where this whole
thing um Okay, let's move on to this
next one. So, all right. So, we need to
let's respond by midnight Wednesday to
Eric so he he can make a decision for
our guest. No problem. All right. Thank
you.
Move on to 9L. Discussion of services
provided by Carol Lee to train the
assistant town clerk. So, um Carol,
um since your resignation as the town
clerk, you've been working in the town
clerk's office and I'm assuming the
majority of what you're doing is
training Britney. Is that accurate? That
is correct. Okay. And you've been
billing the town $19 uh 19 hours a week.
Correct. At a $60 an hour
rate
and I'm just trying to get the timeline
of when the first bill was presented.
The contract that Eric gave me was the
beginning of February.
The contract that Eric gave you, right,
was he gave me the contract I was was in
advance.
He jumped the gun because that contract
as I had wanted it was for you to stay
as town clerk and you remained as town
clerk. But now then we switched this
whole process and you're now on the
board of selectments. So I told him as
soon as we saw that to stop that. But
yes, you have the contract and you have
$60 an hour. Eric did present that to
you. I'm I'm not debating that but I am
telling you there is a lot of things
that happened in between everything that
we were doing. Um
so the question I have is just so
everybody in the community is aware the
timing of it.
Um there it is. So the first one was
submitted February 3rd to February 6th
for 19 hours and one has been submitted
every week since then for
uh
$1,140. Right. I think there was one
week lower. What was that one? I think
there was one week that was lower amount
lower.
Okay.
Um, so my
[Music]
um, just so we all understand, is all of
your time being spent training Britney?
Yes. Okay. All of your time is spent
training Britney.
Um, I would I I would sit there and I
would go, "How long how much longer are
we anticipating having to
um have your assistance in training,
Britney?
Maybe get her through another
Yeah, you're you're you're outside.
Can't hear you. maybe maybe get her
through another
referendum and some of the election
process.
Okay. Would it be acceptable to the
board that Carol stays to the end of the
fiscal year?
I I mean really my issue in in the the
problem that I've always had related to
this is that um uh one of the things
that I always believed was the town
clerk the town clerk was the last paid
official within the community and it is
not um there's always issues there's
been issues in the past uh with elected
officials being paid and uh so my goal
Well, my my thought, my hope is that we
as a board could sit there and get
through the end of this fiscal year
and Carol continues to train Britney and
then we're going to run into the same
problems if Britney does not win the
election that we're going to have the
same problems that we're going to have
someone that falls into this position
that that is not trained and we have
other issues. But
so Jeff, can you define fiscal year?
June 30th. June 30th, 2025. Okay.
Is that acceptable,
Carol? I mean, you could donate your
time. You know that you could donate
your time just as I was asked to donate
my time. Um I I mean, my biggest problem
is in in the sense is that if you're
training Britney, Britney needs to be
there when you're there. And I know
there's
some times when there's one or the other
in the office and and that does that
does happen, but we need to try to
minimize that because of what we're
doing. So, um, anybody have a problem?
Any other member of the board have a
problem with
that? So, it's May 12th right now. So,
it's an additional 45
days and we would reimburse Carol and
get the treasurer's office to to get
those off the books because the
treasurer, you know, I got a notice. I
got an information that they wanted to
acrue all of those payments thinking
that we wouldn't make a decision by the
end of the fiscal year. And I'm like,
no, I want to make a decision before the
end of the fiscal year and be move on to
what we need to do. So then there would
be a position available if need
be for an assistant to cover any time as
we go forward.
But that that's what my hope
is. So, we compensate Carol for all of
the the submissions that she's made
currently
and we expire the contract at the end of
June 2025 when we have the money in the
budget. And then we'll have a time frame
from June or July 1st to November 4th
when we don't have a town clerk on the
books.
Oh, we'll have an acting town clerk.
We'll have an acting town clerk. So,
Britney right now is in essence the
assistant town clerk who has the
authority of an acting town clerk.
And can I just ask too, when Britney is
moved up to acting town clerk, she
probably should be moved up to the town
clerk salary because she's basically
taking
on everything at that point in time and
that's only fair.
[Music]
That's a that's a different issue to
address and we can address it later. I
did just want to point that out to be
fair. We can point out it to be fair,
but
that would
take a union negotiation.
Not if she becomes acting town clerk.
She's no longer assistant. You have just
named her acting town clerk. But that's
that's that's the point of having the
special election.
So, Right.
So, Let's deal with that one. Let's deal
with that one later and we can actually
even talk about that amongst ourselves
between now and our next meeting because
we don't need to do that right now.
Okay. Right. Um I would tell you though
I support an
increase in compensation for the
assistant because although we increased
it once, we're still considerably below
neighboring communities.
And this is a position that we've had
six bodies in in six years. So it makes,
you know, it's something we do need to
address regardless of who ends up as the
town clerk and who ends up as the
assistant. If you're going to keep an
assistant long term, you're going to
have to increase the compensation for
that position. Well, that was great.
That's great thought, but we should have
done that in our budget then.
Well, I asked you to consider it at the
beginning of the budget season and you
could do that. We could do that before
Jul we could do that from July 1st to
November 4th
because Well, there's going to be a town
clerk salary line item in there and Oh,
no, no, no. The issue of of giving
Britney more money to compensate for the
extra responsibilities is a different
issue. And and I'm not against that.
What Eric is asking us to do is to raise
not just the town clerk's salary, which
we wouldn't raise, that's set, but that
is raise raise the union contracted rate
for the assistant because he wants to be
able to hire and keep someone in that
spot. So, I mean, we had the same issue
when the last assistant left who was
really good and went to work for another
town. And so,
First issue on the table
is the current
training the bills for Carol that are in
in-house and a timeline to end the
training period. So, so, so Jeeoff, I
would support that, but I think we
should we should probably reexamine this
in June just to make sure and talk to
Carol and make sure that she's up to
speed before we end that
contract with her just to make sure
that, you know, she's up to because I
don't want to go three or four months
before a special election and make sure
that, you know, make I want to make sure
that she's going to be totally capable
of fulfilling that role.
Um, we can always re-evaluate
everything. Um, but I'd like to sit
there and at least get
um our board to approve the current
requisitions, pay requisitions that are
in place and get them committed through
the end of June so that we can at least
have
uh a timeline to move this forward.
Okay. I don't want this acred. I want it
over with. I want it moved forward so
that we can cross another thing off our
lists and move
on. Okay.
Um, so I'll make a motion that we
approve uh the pay requisitions for
Carol Lee for
uh assistant town clerk training from
the period of February 3rd through June
30th, 2025.
Seconded.
Okay. Further discussion?
All those in favor?
I Okay. All those
opposed and
abstain. So that was 4 01 with Carol Lee
abstaining. Okay.
Um, item 10, uh, approval of minute
meetings for March 10th, 2025, March 26,
2025, April 14th, 2025, April 17, 2025,
and April 24th,
2025. Is a motion to approve?
Is Sure.
Um, I'll second it. Anybody have any
issues? So moved. Yes. Anybody have any
issues with the minutes?
I don't have issues with the minutes,
but I can't I'd have to abstain from the
two in March.
Yes. Understood. Okay. So, let's make a
motion to approve the March 10th, 2025
regular minutes and the March 26, 2025
special meeting minutes. Second.
[Music]
Um, I know there's probably mistakes,
but uh, all those in favor?
I Okay, all those opposed, all those
abstaining. So, the the motion passed
401 with Carol Lee
abstaining. All right. Uh, um, I'll make
a motion to approve the April 14th, 2025
regular minute meetings. the April 17th,
2025 special meeting minutes and the
April 24th, 2025 special minute
meetings. Second that, Jeff.
Scott Person seconded. All those in
favor? I I I have you. Okay, we'll go
back. A problem. I have a problem on the
minutes of April 14th on page four under
I think it's 9H it's talking about roads
to be chip sealed and they say long hill
road and then some roads off of long
hill road and I think it must have been
something else not
long talked about Gilead and something
else and it's not that's not awful long
hill
um if it doesn't have to deal with a
vote I'm not really too worried about it
because Eric is dealing with that. If if
that's okay, Ann. I mean, if it dealt
with a vote or dealt with something that
you said personally or that you wanted
to contradict what was written about
what I said, I'm okay with it. Um, all
right. But if you don't know what that
should be changed to, then what are we
doing?
Yeah, I just need to find out. Jay Jay's
on, so let's let let's let Jay answer
that real quick. Se section of Long Hill
between Hendy and Skinner. Skinner Hill
Road. Okay. Gilead Road, Cone Road.
Okay. So, you're saying it is Long Hill,
that piece up there. When you mentioned
Gilead, I thought it was a road off of
Gilead. I'm sorry. No, thank you. Okay.
So, welcome. So, it's okay. So, we're
good. Okay. So, all those in favor? I I
So, five nothing.
Okay. Okay. Uh item 11, the treasurer's
report. Um
[Music]
um
okay. The treasurer's report. Anybody
have any issues related to the
treasurer's report?
Eric, are there any issues where where
you have concerns about being over
budget?
There are individual line items that are
certainly going to be over budget. The
biggest is going to be planning and
zoning um on legal and professional
services, but that's because of an
ongoing lawsuit. Um it looked for a
while like the property in question had
been sold um and we were going to be
able to recoup our expenses in this
budget year, but it looks like that fell
through. So I suspect the litigation
will drag on past this fiscal year. So
we will run uh over fairly considerably
by the tune of probably
$15,000 in that line item, but we are
able to uh absorb that elsewhere um at
this point. So nothing overall the
budget should come in under budget
overall and it looks like we will be at
or over in total revenue once we get our
ECS dollars based on the collections
um in this month from the tax collector.
So I think we're we're quite solid um
with where we need to be in this fiscal
year.
Can I just ask where we're going to
absorb? You said we could absorb that
50,000 in another area. Where is that?
It was 15. Damn. 15. Yeah. I mean, first
of all, we could take it straight out of
contingency and not worry about it. Um,
we also, it seems unlikely that we're
going to be in construction in this
fiscal year for the uh the playground in
that. So, we could take it out of the
construction administration
uh line item for that. Off the top of my
head, that would absorb it. Um, you
know, but there are other areas where
where we're uh, you know, under budget.
So, actually, I would personally rather
take it out of contingency, but like
when you're under budget on a line item
like that with the bridge construction,
what happens to that? I mean, that money
just rolls back into our general fund.
How do
we are Aren't we going to have those
administrative costs in the next cycle
and it's going to push up? Yeah. No, not
the one for the bridge fund. This is
just the one for construction
administration for the work the pickle
ball courts um in the playground stuff.
Um, so that was me giving up my admin
assistant and using Kate um, in addition
to our tax collector role as opposed to
hiring in exchange for paying for
construction
administration. So that it doesn't look
like we're going to be in construction
by then. So that's pretty likely to be
under spent.
Okay. Okay.
Um, any other questions for you know
that OP OPM
notification? Is there any way that we
can get some uh somebody to talk to us
about
that? You know, the last two pages of
that of our uh
actually that's for the assessor's
office. Is that correct? And that's what
I'm saying is can he explain that to us?
Who OPM? No. No.
OPM sent out. John explained to us the
information that's there and how he
reads it.
Okay.
Okay. Okay. So on page on page 69 starts
the tax collectors report. You got the
monthly
dashboard and then the report for
uncollected taxes. So, there's still
$389,000 of uncollected taxes for this
current cycle. And there's
another, you know, $300,000 of older
year taxes that Kate's been trying to
work on. So, total $630,880.13.
She also sat there and gave us a report
on her tax sales and she said six
properties are scheduled for the tax
sale.
[Music]
Um, do we know the three properties that
paid in full?
And why was that left out?
[Music]
What left out? She she told us how much
it was, but she didn't tell us the
properties that actually paid.
Okay. And you want to know well what
what what what she should do is when she
gives us an update on the u this you
know we should know which ones are
really going to the tax sale. I mean I
know like I went through this list and
like the jab group owns that property
over near network if I remember
correctly and you know correct
this is they owe 40. this is not the
first time that they've gone through
this and they paid I think the last time
that we did the tax sale and then they
don't pay. Um, but I I it would be good
just to have like on her on her list,
there's not that many of them. There's a
total of there were a total of nine
properties that were going to go to tax
sale. And if we get a report before the
tax sale, which is still in July, she
could give us here are the nine
properties and these three have paid and
these
these still have an outstanding fix are
still going to go. Yes. Just on her memo
that would at least we wouldn't have to
go through like I I was flipping through
this list trying to see which properties
are on it and
obviously we know some of them and uh
yeah anyway anybody have any questions
related to the potential tax
sales and the tax collector's
report? Okay. Uh on page 96 there is
a tax
refunds that need to be given. So, my
favorite thing to do. Let's uh I'll make
a motion that we um approve
$2,493.91 of tax refunds for the period
through May 12th, 2025.
Okay.
Okay. Any further discussion on the tax
refunds? All those in favor?
I 5
nothing. Okay. Department reports. First
up is the assessor's office.
[Music]
Um 11 property conveyance, 26 building
permits, motor
vehicle. That's the amount of
transactions that have been handled by
the assessor's office during the month
of
April. Any questions?
Okay, there's a couple other things on
page 98. There's the
building department report. The building
department, oh, I'm sorry, not 98, 100,
my
bad. Building department uh generated
$15,69616 during the month of April. 26
building
permits, three total
zoning applications, one special permit,
10 public works right away permits, one
driveway permit for a total of 41
permits,
[Music]
$15,69616. Okay, any questions on
that? Okay. Then from
page
[Music]
and when does that end? That's Gilead.
That's still
uh 101 to 125 is a public works
uh department report. Any questions on
that? Jay, I I know you were out.
Um, vacuuming up the the grates and the
How far along are you on
that? And I shouldn't say grates, but
the catch basin cleaning.
There you go. Yeah. So, we're we're just
a little more more than a week into it.
So, how long does that go?
Uh, well, we just started into the lake
area from Bunker Hill. So, and I text it
hasn't even been a week yet. So, we just
started. So, that usually goes uh well,
we only have one truck right now. So, I
don't know if two trucks are coming in,
but it usually takes two three weeks.
Okay. The material go Jay uh to our pit.
Do you And what do you do with it there?
You reuse it or can you do anything with
it? No, that just becomes part of the
spoils.
Okay. Um, most of it's most of it's
water and just muddy
leaves. Some sediment that builds
up. Okay. Well, the water is uh freely
flowing in the last couple weeks. So,
most of your catch basins are uh are
running pretty good. Yep. You got any
bad? The the clear the clear we keep
them, the better off the water
flows.
Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. Uh okay. Any questions for
Jay? Okay.
[Music]
Um,
oh,
so after that we moved down to
correspondence and included was a letter
in here from the senior uh from senior
transportation drivers that we had all
received. So it was included within our
packet.
Um, and then after that we had the
second amendment to the solar power
service agreement. Is there any reason
that that's in here? Eric, is that been
approved or where is that? What's the
status on that?
Uh, that was a draft. Dennis can speak
to that better that we got a revised
draft back uh between Dennis and the
school.
Okay. Yeah, I can speak to that briefly.
Um that was
uh essentially based on the second
amendment that I wrote and I and the
results of the town meeting when we uh
when we talked about it with the board
of ed and the and the town towns people
and uh we came up with uh some changes,
but uh that is essentially what was in
the initial draft plus the vote that was
taken at the town meeting about the
other portion of the roof that had to be
addressed. and I worked with uh the
attorneys for the uh board of education.
There's one
uh person in particular whose name is uh
Matt Renelli. He is uh an expert on uh
solar array uh litigation and uh uh you
know processes and whatnot and uh was
easy to work with. Then we came together
on this uh draft and uh which is
includes everything that we wanted in
there and um he wrote a cover letter to
Green Skies which went out last week
along with the draft and we're waiting
for a reply from Green Skies. So, we
just as you you asked and I think wisely
uh I was able to work together with the
board of education attorneys in a very
positive way and get this done and
hopefully it'll it'll work out and we'll
see what happens with uh these projects
anyway because uh I think uh I've heard
many people say some of these may not
get done because of what uh what's
happening in Washington. I don't know.
But that's not anything I can control or
you either. I don't think so. That's all
that's all I have on that. That's moving
forward. Okay. So, so that document is
still in play and we're waiting for
Green Skies to sit there and respond.
Okay. That's right. I ran it by I ran it
by the first selectman. You looked at it
and said, "Looks good." And uh then we
uh we sent it out. Well, to be really
honest, we all looked at it and we all
sent it to you and then our response was
to sit there and have the the board of
education attorney work with you to get
the draft. That's what we did. That's
what you did. Okay. Thank you. All
right. Uh I think we're good there. And
uh then I don't think there's anything
else down here. There was the whole
issue related to
OPM. So, what do we got? So, that's
that. I just asked a question. I thought
there was something on there, Eric,
about renting the community center or
was that in a separate email? No, you
skipped over that a long time ago. We
skipped over it because I thought
because I had picked up some information
from Colombia about how they rent out
their senior center and you know what
they charge and they actually have where
they people are renting it out. they
have to uh purchase insurance, a
liability insurance policy, and they
gave me the whole packet on the tulip
insurance
and you know, then they have a hold
harmless form.
Well, let's actually sit there and and
that is something that we should come
back next month and really talk about
because I know we have to determine uh
rates, but we also need to determine if
we're willing to have alcohol in the
building.
Right.
Is there something Carol and I and like
a couple other people can get together
and we can come up with some
recommendation for the next meeting.
Sure. Because on Colombia's form they do
have alcohol, you know, whether you're
going to have it or not. But of course,
we have to decide if we're going to
allow that on town property. But there's
additional rules if they are going to
have the alcohol, at least here in
Colombia. and they charge
$300. Um, $100 of that is just a
security deposit to make sure that
everything is cleaned up and put back in
the same order it was.
But the insurance, you know, the
liability coverage that they have there,
it looks it's it's reasonable for
someone to buy if they're renting it.
And um, it has good coverage for the
town.
I think our agreement is
uh one insurance for alcohol and one
insurance for non-alcohol. Right, Eric?
So, I don't have a You
guys before said you were less
interested in the insurance and the
waiverss and more interested in a
simplified procedure, which is part of
why I gave you a simpler document than
what you were presented
with originally. Um, I
don't, you know, it depends on what your
comfort level is really and what you
want. I mean, are you going to charge
require the Cub Scouts to get event
insurance to be in the building?
Probably not. No. If it's a if it's a
community if it's a if it's an
organization that benefits the community
at large, then I don't think there
should be a charge. If it's going to be
a private function, a party,
uh, anniversary, reunion, something like
that, family get together, that that's
that's non town oriented. That should be
a charge. And I think Boy Scouts and
Girl Scouts and things like that have
their own insurance anyway.
Um why don't why don't like Jeff had
recommended we you we get together and
you know you sit there and do an
analysis and Carol you have some good
information from some other uh centers
and we come and we evaluate what Eric
has in place and next month we get
something that we consider or we feel
positive about that that okay anybody
else want to get together with
that because we could have three I mean
what's a quorum
Three. Three is a forum. Yeah. Three is
a couple of us. It doesn't matter. We
can we can I mean you can also send it
back and forth between emails. Yes. Yes.
So, Carol, if you want to put something
together and send it out, I guess we can
comment. Okay. All right. I was going to
try to get to Marboro and a couple
others this week.
Okay.
Um All right. And then Eric, you're
going to sit there and and give the uh
the office of policy and management
information to the assessor and have him
give us a little bit of comment on that.
That would be appreciative. All right.
So, we have uh one last thing. Um uh
item 15. Um well, we're going to do
public speak for who's left. Um so, if
no one has any other issues or
discussion points they want to talk, I'm
just going to go through the list. Okay.
Diane Grener, you're still on. I'm still
here. I have no life. Um, basically,
good job. Long meeting. Um, well wellrun
meeting. Thank you very much. Uh, I
applaud your professionalism. It was a
good meeting. Um, just one comment about
the Andover's finest. Uh, there was a a
large list that was um assembled back in
July of 2023 of recommendations people
had um sent in that I think it went to
Paula King. So, you do have a a good
list already if you just need to go
chase it down. Um, I may have a copy of
it as well. I will reach out to Paul and
see if I can get it. Okay, fine. Thank
you very much. Okay, Liz Latchet.
Yeah, I'm still hanging out here, too.
Um, good meeting. Lots of great
information. Thank you all for
everything.
Um guys are doing a great job. Okay.
Wally Barton. Yeah. One comment. Uh the
fire marshall under state statute. If
the town has a fire commission, that is
the appointing authority for the fire
marshal and deputy fire marshal. And I
think that the commission will go along
with whatever Mike has for an assistant.
But technically that doesn't fall under
the selectman. It does fall under the
fire commission. Wall-E, I couldn't be
any happier to hear that. You'll good
news. Have a good night all
uh test cross
no comment.
Uh phone number ending in
1663. Okay, we'll move on. Uh Ed, I'm
sorry. Yeah, go back. You gohead.
Uh, I just wanted to say
um that
I'm very impressed with all of you
because
uh it sounds like this is uh the town
business is uh very complicated and
you're all volunteers and uh we should
all appreciate what you're doing and I'm
glad that you're moving forward. forward
with
uh uh hiring or dealing with uh the
community senior center because it's a
wonderful resource for the town that a
lot of people would like to take
advantage of that haven't yet. But in
talking to people around uh they've been
looking forward to being able to use it,
go into it, uh have activities in it.
So, uh, what happened was un is
unfortunate, but, uh, I'm glad that the
town is going to move forward with it.
Okay. And I just want to make sure that
was Ellen Repe, right? That was me.
Yeah, you got it. All right. Um, Ed S,
I'm assuming is that Ed Crizzley or
Edley? Edrizley.
Yeah. Thanks, Jeff. And thank you
everyone on the um both employees and
volunteers for continuing to try to get
our new community senior center up and
running smoothly. It took a 45 40-year
journey to get where we are. It's going
to take a while to get things up and
running smoothly. In terms of Carol's
research with the town of Marorrow, uh
getting the elementary school kids
working with the seniors, uh want to
remind everybody that eight years ago
when the committee first started working
on this, we tried to do that concept
with the uh fourth grade wing being
asked to put the seniors there and we of
course were denied by the school to do
that. And then the most recent committee
I worked on for four years, we cited the
building where it is with one of the
advantages of being near the elementary
school despite their opposition to be
able to do that as a community and have
three generations working together at
that building facility. So hopefully
after a couple years of getting things
running smoothly, we'll be able to
accomplish those goals. And again,
thanks to everyone to trying to get this
thing up and running after 40 years
need. Okay. Um, Ed, thank you. Ed, thank
you. Um you everyone knows I don't like
to bother talk during public speak but I
have to because there's been there's a
lot of a lot of things that are said
that you know just slightly twisted and
um Ed the school board was on board with
using the the
wing and it was not the school board at
the time that defeated that. Just so
you're aware, like let's not have the
board of education take any more hits
than it needs to take. The school board
and the board of selectmen
were in approval of utilizing that
fourth grade that wing the four
classrooms for uh seen the seniors and
uh there was a group of parents that
came out and defeated that. Just to be
clear, corrected. I I got it. In my
view, it was the elementary school that
stopped the good idea we had to save the
town money. Correct. As it is, it was
not it was not it was not the school
board and it was not the school. It was
it was a group of of parents
that caused that havoc.
Just let I don't like to do that and I
apologize, but Well, no, that's okay.
It's like it's like saying it's like
saying Jeff Magcguire and Scott Person
voted no on every candidate up for the
board of selectment. Those type of
comments are always really good for us.
So, okay, I stand corrected on that. And
then was my comment correct? The four
years of battling citing the building
where it does exist. I know that I'm
with you 100%, Ed. You know that
building the current building the
current building and where it ended up
was not supported.
uh was not supported 100% by the school
board. Yeah. And to add to your point,
Jeeoff, I think Sally was the one that
proposed having the seniors up there at
the school. Sally realized that she was
going to have a population problem and
she was trying to make the So, yes, it
was the past superintendent the space.
Yeah. So, and it also cost town $140,000
in engineering costs. So anyway, let's
move on. We got to keep moving on. We
got your positive point was hopefully we
could eventually get the school children
involved with the seniors. That's the
point I was trying to make. And you'd
actually know they have been to be
really they they there there are events
where the and Ellen Repay who was on
here before. Uh there are school
children that go over there and do
things this they they have been working
at that end. Yeah, let's go on because
we got to get out of here because I got
to get off of here before Leanne
Hutchinson.
Hi.
Um, three different things. One is um,
according to your minutes of November
2023, Kurt Dowling was the third person
who was named as one of uh, the initial
Andover's finest. Correct. Addition to
Percy Cook and Dean Gather. And I was
pleased to see at the budget vote last
week on the paper ballot itself that
there was a place to to you could put
down that you thought either the AES or
the town of Vandover budget was just
right. Um I've heard people say in the
past, you know, why do I have to pick
too high or too low? What if I like it
the way it is? Um so I think I I don't
know if we did that last year, but I I
don't believe it's been done for very
long. So I think that was u a useful
tool. And my third comment is um
regarding this situation with the senior
center. Um again as I said in the first
section of public speak I hope that the
senior advisory committee um does not
get dissolved. I think it certainly
changes things not having a director
now. Um, I'm trying to
understand you, the board of Fleckman
collected resumeés and named people to
the community aspect of the community
advisory committee and the senior
advisory committee and you spent a fair
amount of time tonight trying to decide
who was going to be on a selection and
interview panel for a permanent
director. So, I'm not quite
understanding why the interim position
wasn't advertised to the public.
So, you collect the resumes for people
who are supposed to advise somebody. And
I understand that there's a time crunch,
and I understand that this is just an
interim director, but I'm not fully
understanding why an an advertisement
wasn't placed, opening it up to the
public. Um, in the River East or, you
know, what have you, and one or more
places, um, it could have been done the
week following the termination of the
contract of the previous director. and
if you had to hold a special meeting or
two, it just um you know, I'm just not
quite understanding. As I said, I have
some experience with the senior
population. I've worked in a senior
center before and I'm just not I'm not
saying it's not going to work out. I
certainly hope it works out. I'm just it
just doesn't just seems a little
strange. That's my thought. Understood.
Thank you. Uh did I miss anyone on here?
Because I think the owner is Dennis is
Dennis O'Brien. you miss me. But uh I
just want to say that I agree with you
and I'm glad you brought it up because
when Ed spoke, Ed Serizley, I uh I
worked on that project for quite a while
with the attorneys from the board of
education. And that was we worked in
cooperation with the board of ed just as
you said, Jeff Magcguire and Jeff
Murray. And that was one project that
the uh board of selectman and board of
education worked on together in harmony
just like we're working in harmony now
on the roof on the uh solar array on the
roof and and that's really good for the
town and thank you for that
clarification uh Jeff and uh Jeff and
Jeff appreciate it.
All right. Um uh did I miss
anyone? All right. So, uh we have uh one
last item which is 19 uh 15 in the
executive session IT contract which will
be very
short. Um so can we um so I'd like to
make a motion that we move into
executive session to discuss the IT
contract and invite uh Eric Anderson and
attorney O'Brien. Second. Uh all those
in favor? I. All right. Uh everyone
else, thank you for joining us. really
appreciate uh staying till the
end and uh enjoy the rest of your
evening, however short it is. Eric, if
you can stop the recording or pause the
recording, that would be great.
And